The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
THE CONSTITUTION
OF THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF SRI LANKA
(As amended up to 31st October 2022)
Revised Edition – 2023
Published by the Parliament Secretariat
ii The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
THE CONSTITUTION
OF THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF SRI LANKA
(As amended up to 31st October 2022)
Revised Edition – 2023
Published by the Parliament Secretariat
Printed at the Department of Government Printing
ii The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Revised Edition – 2023
 Published by the Parliament Secretariat
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka iii
This unofficial edition edited by the Bills Office of the Legislative
Services Department of Parliament of Sri Lanka reproduces the text
of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
as amended by Parliament from time to time up to the Twenty First
Amendment to the Constitution. The footnotes below the text indicate the
particular Amendments to the Constitution by which such Amendments
have been made.
iv The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka v
CONTENTS
Article Page
CHAPTER - I
THE PEOPLE, THE STATE AND SOVEREIGNTY
1 The State … … … 1
2 Unitary State … … … 1
3 Sovereignty of the People… … … 1
4 Exercise of Sovereignty… … … 1
5 Territory of the Republic … … … 2
6 The National Flag … … … 2
7 The National Anthem … … … 2
8 The National Day … … … 2
CHAPTER - II
BUDDHISM
9 Buddhism … … … 3
CHAPTER - III
FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS
10 Freedom of thought, conscience and religion … 4
11 Freedom from torture … … … 4
12 Right to equality … … … 4
13 Freedom from arbitrary arrest, detention and punishment, and
prohibition of retrospective penal legislation … 5
14 Freedom of speech, assembly, association, occupation,
movement, & c. … … … 6
14A Right of access to information … … 7
15 Restrictions on fundamental rights … … 8
16 Existing written law and unwritten law to continue in force … 10
17 Remedy for the infringement of fundamental rights by executive
action … … … 10
vi The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
CHAPTER - IV
LANGUAGE
18 Official language … … … 11
19 National languages … … … 11
20 Use of National Languages in Parliament, Provincial Councils
and Local Authorities … … … 11
21 Medium of instruction … … … 11
22 Languages of Administration … … 12
23 Language of Legislation … … 14
24 Languages of the courts … … … 15
25 Provision for adequate facilities for use of languages provided
for in this Chapter … … … 17
25A Provision of any law inconsistent with this Chapter deemed to
be repealed … … … 17
CHAPTER - V
CITIZENSHIP
26 Citizenship of Sri Lanka … … … 18
CHAPTER - VI
DIRECTIVE PRINCIPLES OF STATE POLICY AND
FUNDAMENTAL DUTIES
27 Directive Principles of State Policy … … 19
28 Fundamental duties … … … 21
29 Principles of State Policy and fundamental duties not
justifiable … … … 22
Article Page
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka vii
CHAPTER - VII
THE EXECUTIVE
The President of the Republic
30 The President of the Republic … … 23
31 The election and the term of office of the President … 23
32 Assumption of office … … … 28
33 Powers and functions of the President … … 28
33A Repealed … … … …
34 Grant of Pardon … … … 30
35 Immunity of President from suit … … 31
36 Salary and Pension … … … 32
37 Exercise, performance and discharge of powers, duties and
functions of the President by the Prime Minister … 33
38 Vacation of office by President … … 34
39 Determination by the Supreme Court that the President was not
duly elected or the election of the President was void … 36
40 Vacation of office by President and election of succeeding
President … … … … 37
41 President’s staff … … … 38
CHAPTER - VII A
The Constitutional Council
41A Constitution of the Constitutional Council … 41
41B Council to recommend appointments … … 44
41C Council to approve appointments … … 45
41D Secretary-General and other officers of the Council … 46
41E Meetings of the Council… … … 47
41F Continuation in office of the members of the Council … 48
41G Powers and duties of the Council … … 48
Article Page
viii The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
41H Expenses to be charged on the Consolidated Fund … 48
41J Finality of decisions of the Council … … 49
CHAPTER - VIII
THE EXECUTIVE
The Cabinet of Ministers
42 President to be responsible to Parliament… … 50
43 Prime Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers … 50
44 Ministers and their subjects and functions… … 50
45 Ministers who are not members of the Cabinet of Ministers 51
46 Deputy Ministers … … … 52
47 Tenure of office of the Prime Minister, and the limitation of
numbers and tenure of office of Ministers and Deputy Ministers 53
48 Cabinet of Ministers after dissolution of Parliament … 54
49 Dissolution of the Cabinet of Ministers … … 55
50 Acting Ministers and Deputy Ministers … … 55
51 Secretary to the Prime Minister and Secretary to the Cabinet of
Ministers … … … … 56
52 Secretaries to Ministries… … … 56
53 Official oath or affirmation … … 57
CHAPTER - IX
THE EXECUTIVE
The Public Service
54 Public Service Commission … … … 58
55 Powers and functions of the Cabinet of Ministers and of the
Commission … … … 60
Article Page
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka ix
Article Page
56 Committees of the Commission .... .... 61
57 Delegation of Powers to a public officer .... .... 61
58 Right of appeal .... .... .... 61
59 Administrative Appeals Tribunal .... .... 62
60 Commission not to exercise power where there is delegation 62
61 Procedure at meetings .... .... .... 62
61A Immunity from legal proceedings .... .... 63
61B Savings of rules and regulations in force .... .... 63
61C Interference with the Commission .... .... 63
61D Oath or affirmation of office .... .... 64
61E Appointments by the President .... .... 64
61F Interpretation .... .... .... 64
CHAPTER - X
THE LEGISLATURE
Parliament
62 Parliament .... .... .... 65
63 Official oath or affirmation .... .... 65
64 Speaker, Deputy Speaker and Deputy Chairman of Committees 65
65 Secretary-General of Parliament .... ... 66
66 Vacation of seats .... .... .... 67
67 Privileges, immunities and powers of Parliament and Members 68
68 Allowances of Members .... .... .... 68
69 Powers of Parliament to act notwithstanding vacancies .... 69
CHAPTER – XI
THE LEGISLATURE
Procedure and Powers
70 Sessions of Parliament .... .... .... 70
71 Adjournment .... .... .... 72
x The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Article Page
72 Voting .... .... .... … 72
73 Quorum .... .... .... … 73
74 Standing Orders .... .... .... 73
75 Legislative power .... .... .... 73
76 Delegation of legislative power .... .... 74
77 Duties of Attorney-General in regard to published Bills .... 74
78 Publication of Bills and passing of Bills and resolutions .... 75
79 Certificate of Speaker .... .... .... 75
80 When Bill becomes law .... .... .... 76
81 Expulsion of Members and imposition of civic disability .... 77
CHAPTER - XII
THE LEGISLATURE
Amendment of the Constitution
82 Amendment or repeal of the Constitution must be expressed 79
83 Approval of certain Bills at a Referendum .... 80
84 Bills inconsistent with the Constitution .... .... 80
CHAPTER - XIII
THE REFERENDUM
85 Submission of Bills to people by Referendum .... 82
86 Submission of matters of national importance to people by
Referendum .... .... .... 82
87 Parliament to provide for procedure .... .... 83
CHAPTER - XIV
THE FRANCHISE AND ELECTIONS
88 Right to be an elector .... .... .... 84
89 Disqualification to be an elector .... ... 84
xi The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Article Page
90 Qualification for election as a Member of Parliament ... 88
91 Disqualification for election as a Member of Parliament ... 88
92 Disqualification for election as President.... ... 92
93 Election to be free, equal and secret .... ... 93
94 Election of the President .... ... 93
95 Delimitation Commission .... ... 94
96 Electoral Districts .... ... ... 94
96A Repealed .... ... ...
97 Proclamation of names, & c. of Electoral Districts ... 95
98 Number of Members to be returned by the several Electoral
Districts and their apportionment among such Electoral Districts 96
99 Proportional Representation ... ... 98
99A Election of Members of Parliament on the basis of the total
number of votes polled at a General Election ... 102
100 Penalty for sitting and voting in Parliament when disqualified 103
101 Parliament may make provision in respect of elections .... 104
102 Public officer or an officer of a public corporation not to
function during period of election .... ... 105
CHAPTER - XIV A
ELECTION COMMISSION
103 Election Commission .... ... ... 106
104 Meetings of the Commission .... ... 107
104A Finality of decisions and immunity from suit .... 108
104B Powers, functions and duties of the Commission .... ... 109
104C Deployment of Police by the Commission .... 112
104D Deployment of Armed Forces .... ... 112
104E Commissioner-General of Elections and other officers of the
Commission .... .... .... 113
104F Returning Officers .... .... .... 114
xii The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
104G Public Officers .... .... .... 115
104GG Failure to comply with directions to be an offence .... 115
104H Powers of Supreme Court to issue writs .... .... 116
104J Interpretation .... .... .... 116
CHAPTER - XV
THE JUDICIARY
105 Establishment of Courts, &c. .... .... 117
106 Public sittings .... .... .... 118
Independence of the Judiciary
107 Appointment and removal of Judges of the Supreme Court
and Court of Appeal .... .... 119
108 Salaries of the Judges of the Supreme Court and Court
of Appeal .... .... .... .... 120
109 Acting appointments .... .... .... 120
110 Performance or discharge of other duties or functions by Judges 121
111 Appointment, removal and disciplinary control of Judges of
the High Court .... .... .... 121
111A Commissioners of the High Court .... .... 122
111B Fiscal for the whole Island .... .... 123
111C Interference with Judiciary an offence .... .... 123
CHAPTER - XV A
JUDICIAL SERVICE COMMISSION
111D Constitution of the Judicial Service Commission … 124
111E Meetings of the Commission ... .... .... 124
111F Allowances of members of the Commission .... 125
111G Secretary to the Commission ... .... .... 125
111H Powers of the Commission .... .... .... 126
Article Page
xiii The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
111J Judicial officers and scheduled public officers may resign 126
111K Immunity from legal proceedings .... .... 127
111L Interference with the Commission an offence .... 127
111M Interpretation .... .... .... 127
112 Repealed .... .... .... ....
113 Repealed .... .... .... ....
113A Repealed .... .... .... ....
114 Repealed .... .... .... ....
115 Repealed .... .... .... ....
116 Renumbered as Article 111C .... ....
117 Repealed .... .... .... ....
CHAPTER - XVI
THE SUPERIOR COURTS
The Supreme Court
118 General jurisdiction of Supreme Court .... .... 130
119 Constitution of Supreme Court .... .... .... 130
120 Constitutional Jurisdiction of the Supreme Court .... 131
121 Ordinary exercise of constitutional jurisdiction in respect
of Bills .... .... .... .... 132
122 Special exercise of constitutional jurisdiction in respect of
urgent Bills .... .... .... 133
123 Determination of Supreme Court in respect of Bills .... 134
124 Validity of Bills and legislative process not to be questioned 135
125 Constitutional jurisdiction in the interpretation of the
Constitution .... .... .... 135
126 Fundamental rights jurisdiction and its exercise .... .... 136
127 Appellate jurisdiction .... .... ... 137
128 Right of appeal .... .... .... 137
129 Consultative jurisdiction .... .... 138
Article Page
xiv The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
130 Jurisdiction in election and referendum petitions .... 139
131 Jurisdiction in respect of breaches of Parliamentary
privileges .... .... .... 139
132 Sittings of the Supreme Court .... .... 140
133 Appointment of ad hoc Judges .... .... 140
134 Right to be heard by the Supreme Court .... .... 141
135 Registry of the Supreme Court and office of Registrar .... 141
136 Rules of the Supreme Court .... .... 141
The Court of Appeal
137 The Court of Appeal .... .... .... 144
138 Jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal.. .... .... 144
139 Powers in appeal .... .... .... 144
140 Power to issue writs, other than writs of habeas corpus .... 145
141 Power to issue writs of habeas corpus .... .... 145
142 Power to bring up and remove prisoners .... .... 146
143 Power to grant injunction .... .... 146
144 Parliamentary election petitions .... .... 147
145 Inspection of records .... .... .... 147
146 Sittings of the Court of Appeal .... .... 147
147 Registry of the Court of Appeal and office of Registrar .... 148
CHAPTER - XVII
FINANCE
148 Control of Parliament over public finance .... 149
149 Consolidated Fund .... .... .... 149
150 Withdrawal of sums from Consolidated Fund .... 149
151 Contingencies Fund .... .... .... 150
152 Special provisions as to Bills affecting public revenue ... .... 150
Article Page
xv The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
153 Auditor-General .... .... .... 151
153A Constitution of the Audit Service Commission .... 151
153B Meetings of the Commission .... .... 153
153C Powers and functions of the Commission .... 153
153D Influencing or attempting to influence decision of the Commission
or any officer of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service, to be
an offence .... .... ... 154
153E Immunity from legal proceedings .... .... 154
153F Costs and expenses .... .... .... 155
153G Appeals to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal .... 155
153H Commission to be answerable to Parliament .... 155
154 Duties and functions of Auditor-General .... 155
CHAPTER - XVII A
154A Establishment of Provincial Councils .... .... 159
154B Governor .... .... .... .... 159
154C Exercise of executive powers by the Governor .... 162
154D Membership of Provincial Council .. .... .... 162
154E Term of office .... .... .... 163
154F Board of Ministers .... .... .... 163
154G Statutes of Provincial Councils .... .... 165
154H Assent .... .... .... .... 168
154J Public Security .... .... .... 169
154K Failure to comply with directions .... .... 170
154L Failure of administrative machinery .... .... 170
154M Parliament to confer powers of Provincial Council to President 172
154N Financial instability .... .... .... 173
154P High Court .... .... .... 174
154Q Functions, powers, election, & c. of Provincial Councils .... 176
Article Page
xvi The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
154R Finance Commission .... .... .... 176
154S Special provision enabling Provincial Councils not to
exercise powers under this Chapter .... .... 178
154T Transitional measures .... .... .... 179
CHAPTER - XVIII
PUBLIC SECURITY
155 Public Security .... .... .... 180
CHAPTER - XVIII A
NATIONAL POLICE COMMISSION
155A Constitution of the National Police Commission .... 184
155B Meetings of the Commission .... .... 186
155C Immunity from legal proceedings .... .... 186
155D Secretary to the Commission .... .... 187
155E Costs and expenses .... .... .... 187
155F Interference with the Commission .... .... 187
155FF Powers of the Commission .... .... 187
155FFFCommission to make rules .... .... 187
155G Powers of the Commission .... .... 188
155H Delegation of certain powers of the Commission to a Committee 189
155J Delegation of certain functions by the Commission .... 189
155K Right of appeal .... .... .... 190
155L Appeals to Administrative Appeals Tribunal .... 191
155M Saving of existing rules and regulations .... .... 191
155N Commission answerable to Parliament .... .... 191
Article Page
xvii The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
CHAPTER - XIX
THE PARLIAMENTARY COMMISSIONER FOR
ADMINISTRATION
156 Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration .... 192
CHAPTER - XIX A
COMMISSION TO INVESTIGATE ALLEGATIONS OF
BRIBERY OR CORRUPTION
156A Commission to investigate bribery or corruption .... 194
CHAPTER - XIX B
NATIONAL PROCUREMENT COMMISSION
156B National Procurement Commission .... .... 195
156C Functions of the Commission .... .... 195
156D Powers of the Commission .... .... 197
156E Meetings of the Commission .... .... 198
156F Staff of the Commission.... .... .... 198
156G Expenses of the Commission to be charged on the Consolidated
Fund .... .... .... 199
156H Interpretation .... .... .... 199
CHAPTER - XX
GENERAL
157 International Treaties and Agreements .... .... 200
157A Prohibition against violation of territorial integrity of Sri Lanka 200
158 Delegation .... .... .... 205
159 Deputy Speaker to act for Speaker .... .... 205
Article Page
xviii The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
CHAPTER - XXI
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
160 First President .... .... .... 206
161 First Parliament .... .... .... 206
162 Application of certain provisions .... .... 215
163 Judges of Supreme Court and High Court to cease to hold office 215
164 Continuation in office of Judges, public officers and others 216
165 Oath or affirmation to be taken or made by public officers and
others .... .... .... .... 216
166 Powers, privileges, immunities and rights of the Republic 217
167 Rights, duties and obligations of the Republic .... 217
168 Past operation of laws, previous acts, offences and pending
action, & c. .... .... .... 218
169 Provisions relating to Judiciary .... .... 219
169A Provision relating to Queen's Counsel and Senior
Attorneys-at-Law .... .... .... 227
CHAPTER - XXII
INTERPRETATION
170 Interpretation .... .... .... 228
CHAPTER - XXIII
REPEAL
171 Repeal .... .... .... 232
CHAPTER - XXIV
PROMULGATION OF THE CONSTITUTION
172 Promulgation of the Constitution .... .... 233
Other Consequential Amendments in the Twenty First
Amendment to the Constitution .... .... 234
Article Page
xix The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
SCHEDULES
First Schedule .... .... .... 238
Second Schedule .... .... . ... 239
Third Schedule .... .... .... 241
Fourth Schedule .... .... .... 245
Fifth Schedule .... .... .... 246
Sixth Schedule .... .... .... 247
Seventh Schedule .... .... .... 248
Eighth Schedule .... .... .... 249
Ninth Schedule List I (Provincial Council list) 250
Appendix I .... .... 257
Appendix II .... .... 265
Appendix III .... .... 268
List II (Reserved list) .... .... 271
List III (Concurrent list) .... .... 279
Article Page
xx The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
xxi The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
SVASTI
The PEOPLE OF SRI LANKA having, by their Mandate freely expressed
and granted on the sixth day of the waxing moon in the month of Adhi Nikini
in the year two thousand five hundred and twenty one of the Buddhist Era
(being Thursday the twenty-first day of the month of July in the year one
thousand nine hundred and seventy seven), entrusted to and empowered their
Representatives elected on that day to draft, adopt and operate a new
Republican Constitution in order to achieve the goals of a DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC, and having solemnly resolved by the grant of such
Mandate and the confidence reposed in their said Representatives who were
elected by an overwhelming majority, to constitute SRI LANKA into a
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC whilst ratifying the immutable
republican principles of REPRESENTATIVE DEMOCRACY and assuring
to all Peoples FREEDOM, EQUALITY, JUSTICE, FUNDAMENTAL
HUMAN RIGHTS and the INDEPENDENCE OF THE JUDICIARY as the
intangible heritage that guarantees the dignity and well-being of succeeding
generations of the People of SRI LANKA and of all the People of the World,
who come to share with those generations the effort of working for the
creation and preservation of a JUST AND FREE SOCIETY:
WE, THE FREELY ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES OF THE PEOPLE
OF SRI LANKA, in pursuance of such Mandate, humbly acknowledging our
obligations to our People and gratefully remembering their heroic and
unremitting struggle to regain and preserve their rights and privileges so that
the Dignity and Freedom of the Individual may be assured, Just, Social,
Economic and Cultural Order attained, the Unity of the Country restored, and
Concord established with other Nations,
do hereby adopt and enact
this
CONSTITUTION
as the
SUPREME LAW
of the
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA.
xxii The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
CHAPTER I
THE PEOPLE, THE STATE AND SOVEREIGNTY
1. Sri Lanka (Ceylon) is a Free, Sovereign,
Independent and Democratic Socialist Republic and shall
be known as the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka.
2. The Republic of Sri Lanka is a Unitary State.
3. In the Republic of Sri Lanka sovereignty is
in the People and is inalienable. Sovereignty includes the
powers of government, fundamental rights and the
franchise.
4. The Sovereignty of the People shall be exercised
and enjoyed in the following manner:–
(a) the legislative power of the People shall be
exercised by Parliament, consisting of elected
representatives of the People and by the
People at a Referendum;
(b) the executive power of the People, including
the defence of Sri Lanka, shall be exercised
by the President of the Republic elected by
the People;
(c) the judicial power of the People shall be
exercised by Parliament through courts, tribunals
and institutions created and established, or
recognized, by the Constitution, or created
and established by law, except in regard to
matters relating to the privileges, immunities
and powers of Parliament and of its Members,
wherein the judicial power of the People may be
exercised directly by Parliament according
to law;
(d) the fundamental rights which are by the
The State
Unitary State
Exercise of
Sovereignty
Sovereignty
of the
People
2 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Constitution declared and recognized shall
be respected, secured and advanced by all the
organs of government and shall not be abridged,
restricted or denied, save in the manner and
to the extent hereinafter provided; and
(e) the franchise shall be exercisable at the
election of the President of the Republic
and of the Members of Parliament and at
every Referendum by every citizen who has
attained the age of eighteen years and who,
being qualified to be an elector as hereinafter
provided, has his name entered in the register
of electors.
5. The territory of the Republic of Sri Lanka shall
consist of the 1
[twenty-five] administrative districts, the
names of which are set out in the First Schedule and its
2
[territorial waters:
Provided that such administrative districts may be
subdivided or amalgamated so as to constitute different
administrative districts, as Parliament may by resolution
determine]
6. The National Flag of the Republic of Sri Lanka
shall be the Lion Flag depicted in the Second Schedule.
7. The National Anthem of the Republic of Sri
Lanka shall be “Sri Lanka Matha”, the words and music
of which are set out in the Third Schedule.
8. The National Day of the Republic of Sri Lanka
shall be the fourth day of February
1 - Substituted by the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2(a).
2 - Substituted by the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2(b).
Territory of
the Republic
The National
Flag
The National
Anthem
The National
Day
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 3
CHAPTER II
BUDDHISM
9. The Republic of Sri Lanka shall give to Buddhism
the foremost place and accordingly it shall be the duty of
the State to protect and foster the Buddha Sasana, while
assuring to all religions the rights granted by Articles 10
and 14(1)(e).
Buddhism
4 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
CHAPTER III
FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS
10. Every person is entitled to freedom of thought,
conscience and religion, including the freedom to have or
to adopt a religion or belief of his choice.
11. No person shall be subjected to torture or to
cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
12. (1) All persons are equal before the law and are
entitled to the equal protection of the law.
(2) No citizen shall be discriminated against on the
grounds of race, religion, language, caste, sex, political
opinion, place of birth or any one of such grounds:
Provided that it shall be lawful to require
a person to acquire within a reasonable time sufficient
knowledge of any language as a qualification for any
employment or office in the Public, Judicial or Local
Government Service or in the service of any Public
Corporation, where such knowledge is reasonably necessary
for the discharge of the duties of such employment or office:
Provided further that it shall be lawful to require
a person to have a sufficient knowledge of any language
as a qualification for any such employment or office where no
function of that employment or office can be discharged
otherwise than with a knowledge of that language.
(3) No person shall, on the grounds of race, religion,
language, caste, sex or any one of such grounds, be
subject to any disability, liability, restriction or condition
with regard to access to shops, public restaurants, hotels,
places of public entertainment and places of public
worship of his own religion.
(4) Nothing in this Article shall prevent special
provision being made, by law, subordinate legislation or
Freedom of
thought,
conscience
and religion
Freedom
from torture
Right to
equality
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 5
executive action, for the advancement of women, children
or disabled persons.
13. (1) No person shall be arrested except according
to procedure established by law. Any person arrested shall
be informed of the reason for his arrest.
(2) Every person held in custody, detained or
otherwise deprived of personal liberty shall be brought
before the judge of the nearest competent court according
to procedure established by law and shall not be further
held in custody, detained or deprived of personal liberty
except upon and in terms of the order of such judge made
in accordance with procedure established by law.
(3) Any person charged with an offence shall be
entitled to be heard, in person or by an Attorney-at-Law,
at a fair trial by a competent court.
(4) No person shall be punished with death or
imprisonment except by order of a competent court, made
in accordance with procedure established by law. The
arrest, holding in custody, detention or other deprivation
of personal liberty of a person, pending investigation or
trial, shall not constitute punishment.
(5) Every person shall be presumed innocent until he
is proved guilty:
Provided that the burden of proving particular
facts may, by law, be placed on an accused person.
(6) No person shall be held guilty of an offence on
account of any act or omission which did not, at the
time of such act or omission, constitute such an offence
and no penalty shall be imposed for any offence more
severe than the penalty in force at the time such offence
was committed.
Nothing in this Article shall prejudice the trial
Freedom from
arbitrary
arrest,
detention and
punishment,
and prohibition
of retrospective
penal
legislation
6 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
and punishment of any person for any act or omission
which, at the time when it was committed, was criminal
according to the general principles of law recognized
by the community of nations.
It shall not be contravention of this Article to
require the imposition of a minimum penalty for an
offence provided that such penalty does not exceed the
maximum penalty prescribed for such offence at the time
such offence was committed.
(7) The arrest, holding in custody, detention or
other deprivation of personal liberty of a person, by
reason of a removal order or a deportation order made
under the provisions of the Immigrants and Emigrants Act
or the Indo-Ceylon Agreement (Implementation) Act, No.
14 of 1967, or such other law as may be enacted in
substitution therefor, shall not be a contravention of this
Article.
14. (1) Every citizen is entitled to –
(a) the freedom of speech and expression
including publication;
(b) the freedom of peaceful assembly;
(c) the freedom of association;
(d) the freedom to form and join a trade
union;
(e) the freedom, either by himself or in
association with others, and either in public
or in private, to manifest his religion or
belief in worship, observance, practice and
teaching;
(f) the freedom by himself or in association
with others to enjoy and promote his own
culture and to use his own language;
Freedom of
speech,
assembly,
association,
occupation,
movement, & c.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 7
(g) the freedom to engage by himself or
in association with others in any lawful
occupation, profession, trade, business or
enterprise;
(h) the freedom of movement and of choosing
his residence within Sri Lanka; and
(i) the freedom to return to Sri Lanka.
(2) A person who, not being a citizen of any other
country, has been permanently and legally resident in Sri
Lanka immediately prior to the commencement of the
Constitution and continues to be so resident shall be
entitled, for a period of ten years from the commencement
of the Constitution, to the rights declared and recognized
by paragraph (1) of this Article.
3
[14A. (1) Every citizen shall have the right of
access to any information as provided for by law, being
information that is required for the exercise or protection
of a citizen’s right held by:-
(a) the State, a Ministry or any Government
Department or any statutory body established
or created by or under any law;
(b) any Ministry of a Minister of the Board of
Ministers of a Province or any Department
or any statutory body established or created
by a statute of a Provincial Council;
(c) any local authority; and
(d) any other person, who is in possession of
such information relating to any institution
referred to in sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of
this paragraph.
3 - Inserted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2.
Right of
access to
information
8 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(2) No restrictions shall be placed on the right
declared and recognized by this Article, other than such
restrictions prescribed by law as are necessary in a
democratic society, in the interests of national security,
territorial integrity or public safety, for the prevention
of disorder or crime, for the protection of health or morals
and of the reputation or the rights of others, privacy,
prevention of contempt of court, protection of parliamentary
privilege, for preventing the disclosure of information
communicated in confidence, or for maintaining the
authority and impartiality of the judiciary.
(3) In this Article, “citizen” includes a body whether
incorporated or unincorporated, if not less than three-fourths
of the members of such body are citizens.]
15. (1) The exercise and operation of the
fundamental rights declared and recognized by Articles
13(5) and 13(6) shall be subject only to such restrictions
as may be prescribed by law in the interests of national
security. For the purposes of this paragraph “law” includes
regulations made under the law for the time being
relating to public security.
(2) The exercise and operation of the fundamental
right declared and recognized by Article 14(1)(a) shall
be subject to such restrictions as may be prescribed by
law in the interests of racial and religious harmony or in
relation to parliamentary privilege, contempt of court,
defamation or incitement to an offence.
(3) The exercise and operation of the fundamental
right declared and recognized by Article 14(1)(b) shall
be subject to such restrictions as may be prescribed by
law in the interests of racial and religious harmony.
(4) The exercise and operation of the fundamental
right declared and recognized by Article 14(1)(c) shall
be subject to such restrictions as may be prescribed by
Restrictions on
fundamental
rights
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 9
law in the interests of racial and religious harmony or
national economy.
(5) The exercise and operation of the fundamental
right declared and recognized by Article 14(1)(g) shall
be subject to such restrictions as may be prescribed by
law in the interests of national economy or in relation to –
(a) the professional, technical, academic, financial
and other qualifications necessary for practising
any profession or carrying on any occupation,
trade, business or enterprise and the licensing
and disciplinary control of the person entitled
to such fundamental right; and
(b) the carrying on by the State, a State agency
or a public corporation of any trade, business,
industry, service or enterprise whether to the
exclusion, complete or partial, of citizens or
otherwise.
(6) The exercise and operation of the fundamental
right declared and recognized by Article 14(1)(h) shall
be subject to such restrictions as may be prescribed by
law in the interests of national economy.
(7) The exercise and operation of all the fundamental
rights declared and recognized by Articles 12, 13(1), 13(2)
and 14 shall be subject to such restrictions as may be
prescribed by law in the interests of national security,
public order and the protection of public health or morality,
or for the purpose of securing due recognition and respect
for the rights and freedoms of others, or of meeting the
just requirements of the general welfare of a democratic
society. For the purposes of this paragraph “law” includes
regulations made under the law for the time being relating
to public security.
(8) The exercise and operation of the fundamental
rights declared and recognized by Articles 12(1), 13 and 14
10 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
shall, in their application to the members of the Armed
Forces, Police Force and other Forces charged with
the maintenance of public order, be subject to such
restrictions as may be prescribed by law in the interests of
the proper discharge of their duties and the maintenance
of discipline among them.
16. (1) All existing written law and unwritten
law shall be valid and operative notwithstanding any
inconsistency with the preceding provisions of this
Chapter.
(2) The subjection of any person on the order of
a competent court to any form of punishment recognized
by any existing written law shall not be a contravention of
the provisions of this Chapter.
17. Every person shall be entitled to apply to the
Supreme Court, as provided by Article 126, in respect of
the infringement or imminent infringement, by executive
or administrative action, of a fundamental right to which
such person is entitled under the provisions of this
Chapter.
Existing
written law
and
unwritten
law to
continue in
force
Remedy
for the
infringement of
fundamental
rights by
executive
action
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 11
CHAPTER IV
LANGUAGE
18. 4
[(1)]The Official Language of Sri Lanka shall
be Sinhala.
5
[(2) Tamil shall also be an official language.
(3) English shall be the link language.
(4) Parliament shall by law provide for the
implementation of the provisions of this Chapter.]
19. The National Languages of Sri Lanka shall be
Sinhala and Tamil.
20. A Member of Parliament or 6
[a member of a
Provincial Council or a Local Authority] shall be entitled
to perform his duties and discharge his functions in Parliament
7
[or in such Provincial Council or Local Authority] in
either of the National Languages.
21. (1) A person shall be entitled to be educated
through the medium of either of the National Languages:
Provided that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply to an institution of higher education where
the medium of instruction is a language other than a
National Language.
(2) Where one National Language is a medium
of instruction for or in any course, department or faculty
of any University directly or indirectly financed by the
State, the other National Language shall also be made a
medium of instruction for or in such course, department or
faculty for students who prior to their admission to such
4 - Renumbered as paragraph (1) by the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution
Sec. 2(a).
5 - Inserted by the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2(b).
6 - Substituted by the Sixteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2(1).
7 - Substituted by the Sixteenth Amendment to the Constitution Section. 2(2).
Official
Language
National
Languages
Use of
National
Languages in
Parliament,
Provincial
Councils and
Local
Authorities
Medium of
instruction
12 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
University, were educated through the medium of such
other National Language:
Provided that compliance with the preceding
provisions of this paragraph shall not be obligatory if such
other National Language is the medium of instruction
for or in any like course, department or faculty either at
any other campus or branch of such University or of any
other like University.
(3) In this Article “University” includes any
institution of higher education.
22. (1) Sinhala and Tamil shall be the languages
of administration throughout Sri Lanka and Sinhala shall
be the language of administration and be used for the
maintenance of public records and the transaction of all
business by public institutions of all the Provinces of Sri
Lanka other than the Northern and Eastern Provinces
where Tamil shall be so used:
Provided that the President may, having regard
to the proportion which the Sinhala or Tamil linguistic
minority population in any unit comprising a division
of an Assistant Government Agent, bears to the total
population of that area, direct that both Sinhala and Tamil
or a language other than the language used as the language
of administration in the province in which such area may
be situated, be used as the language of administration for
such area.
(2) In any area where Sinhala is used as the language
of administration a person other than an official acting in
his official capacity, shall be entitled:
(a) to receive communications from and to
communicate and transact business with,
any official in his official capacity, in
either Tamil or English;
8 - Substituted by the Sixteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 3.
8[Languages of
Administration
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 13
(b) If the law recognizes his right to inspect
or to obtain copies of or extracts from any
official register, record, publication or other
document, to obtain a copy of, or an extract
from such register, record, publication or
other document, or a translation thereof,
as the case may be, in either Tamil or
English;
(c) where a document is executed by any
official for the purpose of being issued
to him, to obtain such document or a
translation thereof, in either Tamil or
English;
(3) In any area where Tamil is used as the language
of administration, a person other than an official acting
in his official capacity, shall be entitled to exercise
the rights and to obtain the services, referred to in
sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of paragraph (2) of this
Article, in Sinhala or English.
(4) A Provincial Council or a Local Authority
which conducts its business in Sinhala shall be entitled
to receive communications from and to communicate and
transact business with, any official in his official capacity,
in Sinhala and a Provincial Council or a Local Authority
which conducts its business in Tamil shall be entitled to receive
communications from and to communicate and transact
business with, any official in his official capacity, in Tamil:
Provided however that a Provincial Council, Local
Authority, Public Institution or any official receiving
communications from transacting business with any other
or Provincial Council, Local Authority, Public Institution
or an official functioning in an area in which a different
language is used as the Language of administration shall be
entitled to receive communications from and to communicate
and transact business in English.
14 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(5) A person shall be entitled to be examined through
the medium of either Sinhala or Tamil or a language of his
choice at any examination for the admission of persons to
the Public Service, Judicial Service, Provincial Public
Service, Local Government Service or any public institution,
subject to the condition that he may be required to acquire
a sufficient knowledge of Tamil or Sinhala, as the case
may be, within a reasonable time after admission to such
service or public institution where such knowledge is
reasonably necessary for the discharge of his duties:
Provided that a person may be required to have a
sufficient knowledge of Sinhala or Tamil, as a condition
for admission to any such service or public institution
where no function of the office or employment for which
he is recruited can be discharged otherwise than with a
sufficient knowledge of such language.
(6) In this Article –
“official” means the President, any Minister, Deputy
Minister, Governor, Chief Minister or Minister of the Board
of Ministers of a Province, or any officer of a public
institution; local authority or Provincial Council; and
“Public Institution” means a department or institution
of the Government, a public corporation or statutory
institution.]
23. (1) All laws and subordinate legislation shall
be enacted or made and published in Sinhala and Tamil,
together with a translation thereof in English:
Provided that Parliament shall, at the stage of
enactment of any law determine which text shall prevail in
the event of any inconsistency between texts:
Provided further that in respect of all other
written laws and the text in which such written laws was
9 - Substituted by the Sixteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 3.
9
[Language
of Legislation
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 15
enacted or adopted or made, shall prevail in the event of
any inconsistency between such texts.
(2) All Orders, Proclamations, Rules, By-laws,
Regulations and Notifications made or issued under any
written law other than those made or issued by a
Provincial Council or a Local Authority and the Gazette
shall be published in Sinhala and Tamil together with a
translation thereof in English.
(3) All Orders, Proclamations, Rules, By-laws,
Regulations and Notifications made or issued under any
written law by any Provincial Council or Local Authority
and all documents, including circulars and forms issued
by such body or any public institution shall be published
in the language used in the administration in the respective
areas in which they function, together with a translation
thereof in English.
(4) All laws and subordinate legislation in force
immediately prior to the commencement of the Constitution,
shall be published in the Gazette in the Sinhala and Tamil
Language as expeditiously as possible.]
24. 10[(1) Sinhala and Tamil shall be the languages
of the Courts throughout Sri Lanka and Sinhala shall be
used as the language of the courts situated in all the areas
of Sri Lanka except those in any area where Tamil is the
language of administration. The record and proceedings
shall be in the language of the Court. In the event of an
appeal from any court records shall also be prepared in the
language of the court hearing the appeal, if the language
of such court is other than the language used by the court
from which the appeal is preferred:
Provided that the Minister in charge of the
subject of Justice may, with the concurrence of the
Cabinet of Ministers direct that the record of any court
10 - Substituted by the Sixteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4(1).
Languages
of the courts
16 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
shall also be maintained and the proceedings conducted in
a language other than the language of the court.]
(2) Any party or applicant or any person legally
entitled to represent such party or applicant may initiate
proceedings and submit to court pleadings and other
documents and participate in the proceedings in courts,
11[in either Sinhala or Tamil.]
(3) Any judge, juror, party or applicant or any
person legally entitled to represent such party or applicant,
who is not conversant with the language used in a court,
shall be entitled to interpretation and to translation into
12[Sinhala or Tamil] provided by the State, to enable him
to understand and participate in the proceedings before
such court and shall also be entitled to obtain in 13[such
language] any such part of the record or a translation
thereof, as the case may be, as he may be entitled to
obtain according to law.
(4) The Minister in charge of the subject of Justice
may, with the concurrence of the Cabinet of Ministers,
issue, directions permitting 14[the use of English] in or in
relation to the records and proceedings in any court for all
purposes or for such purposes as may be specified therein.
Every judge shall be bound to implement such directions.
(5) In this Article –
“Court” means any court or tribunal created and
established for the administration of justice including the
adjudication and settlement of industrial and other
disputes, or any other tribunal or institution exercising
judicial or quasi-judicial functions or any tribunal or
institution created and established for the conciliation and
settlement of disputes;
11 - Substituted by the Sixteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4(2).
12 - Substituted by the Sixteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4(3)(a).
13 - Substituted by the Sixteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4(3)(b).
14 - Substituted by the Sixteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4(4). 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 17
15 - Inserted by the Sixteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 5.
Provision for
adequate
facilities for
use of
languages
provided for
in this
Chapter
Provision of
any law
inconsistent
with this
Chapter
deemed to be
repealed
“judge” includes the President, Chairman, Presiding
Officer and member of any court; and
“record” includes Pleadings, Judgments, Orders and
Other judicial and Ministerial acts.
25. The State shall provide adequate facilities for the
use of the languages provided for in this Chapter.
15[25A. In the event of any inconsistency between the
provisions of any law and the provisions of this Chapter,
the provisions of this Chapter shall prevail.]
18 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
CHAPTER V
CITIZENSHIP
26. (1) There shall be one status of citizenship
known as “the status of a citizen of Sri Lanka”.
(2) A citizen of Sri Lanka shall for all purposes
be described only as a “citizen of Sri Lanka”, whether
such person became entitled to citizenship by descent
or by virtue of registration in accordance with the law
relating to citizenship.
(3) No distinction shall be drawn between citizens
of Sri Lanka for any purpose by reference to the mode of
acquisition of such status, as to whether acquired by
descent or by virtue of registration.
(4) No citizen of Sri Lanka shall be deprived of
his status of a citizen of Sri Lanka, except under and by
virtue of the provisions of sections 19, 20, 21 and 22 of
the Citizenship Act:
Provided that the provisions of sections 23 and
24 of that Act shall also be applicable to a person who
became entitled to the status of a citizen of Sri Lanka by
virtue of registration under the provisions of section 11,
12 or 13 of that Act.
(5) Every person who immediately prior to the
commencement of the Constitution was a citizen of Sri
Lanka, whether by descent or by virtue of registration in
accordance with any law relating to citizenship, shall be
entitled to the status and to the rights of a citizen of Sri
Lanka as provided in the preceding provisions of this
Article.
(6) The provisions of all existing written laws
relating to citizenship and all other existing written laws
wherein reference is made to citizenship shall be read
subject to the preceding provisions of this Article.
Citizenship
of Sri Lanka
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 19
CHAPTER VI
DIRECTIVE PRINCIPLES OF STATE POLICY AND
FUNDAMENTAL DUTIES
27. (1) The Directive Principles of State Policy
herein contained shall guide Parliament, the President
and the Cabinet of Ministers in the enactment of laws and
the governance of Sri Lanka for the establishment of a just
and free society.
(2) The State is pledged to establish in Sri Lanka
a Democratic Socialist Society, the objectives of which
include –
(a) the full realization of the fundamental rights
and freedoms of all persons;
(b) the promotion of the welfare of the People
by securing and protecting as effectively as it
may, a social order in which justice (social,
economic and political) shall guide all the
institutions of the national life;
(c) the realization by all citizens of an adequate
standard of living for themselves and their
families, including adequate food, clothing and
housing, the continuous improvement of living
conditions and the full enjoyment of leisure
and social and cultural opportunities;
(d) the rapid development of the whole country
by means of public and private economic
activity and by laws prescribing such planning
and controls as may be expedient for directing
and Co-ordinating such public and private
economic activity towards social objectives
and the public weal;
(e) the equitable distribution among all citizens
of the material resources of the community
Directive
Principles
of State
Policy
20 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
and the social product, so as best to subserve
the common good;
(f) the establishment of a just social order in
which the means of production, distribution
and exchange are not concentrated and
centralised in the State, State agencies or in
the hands of a privileged few, but are dispersed
among and owned by, all the People of Sri
Lanka;
(g) raising the moral and cultural standards of
the People and ensuring the full development
of human personality; and
(h) the complete eradication of illiteracy and the
assurance to all persons of the right to universal
and equal access to education at all levels.
(3) The State shall safeguard the independence,
sovereignty, unity and the territorial integrity of Sri Lanka.
(4) The State shall strengthen and broaden the
democratic structure of government and the democratic
rights of the People by decentralizing the administration
and by affording all possible opportunities to the People to
participate at every level in national life and in government.
(5) The State shall strengthen national unity by
promoting co-operation and mutual confidence among all
sections of the People of Sri Lanka, including the racial,
religious, linguistic and other groups and shall take effective
steps in the fields of teaching, education and information
in order to eliminate discrimination and prejudice.
(6) The State shall ensure equality of opportunity to
citizens, so that no citizen shall suffer any disability on
the ground of race, religion, language, caste, sex, political
opinion or occupation.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 21
(7) The State shall eliminate economic and social
privilege and disparity and the exploitation of man by man
or by the State.
(8) The State shall ensure that the operation of the
economic system does not result in the concentration of
wealth and the means of production to the common
detriment.
(9) The State shall ensure social security and welfare.
(10) The State shall assist the development of the
cultures and the languages of the People.
(11) The State shall create the necessary economic
and social environment to enable people of all religious
faiths to make a reality of their religious principles.
(12) The State shall recognize and protect the family
as the basic unit of society.
(13) The State shall promote with special care the
interests of children and youth, so as to ensure their full
development, physical, mental, moral, religious and social,
and to protect them from exploitation and discrimination.
(14) The State shall protect, preserve and improve
the environment for the benefit of the community.
(15) The State shall promote international peace,
security and co-operation, and the establishment of a just
and equitable international economic and social order and
shall endeavour to foster respect for international law and
treaty obligations in dealings among nations.
28. The exercise and enjoyment of rights and
freedoms are inseparable from the performance of duties
and obligations and accordingly it is the duty of every
person in Sri Lanka –
(a) to uphold and defend the Constitution and
the law;
Fundamental
duties
22 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(b) to further the national interest and to foster
national unity;
(c) to work conscientiously in his chosen
occupation;
(d) to preserve and protect public property and
to combat misuse and waste of public
property;
(e) to respect the rights and freedoms of others;
and
(f) to protect nature and conserve its riches.
29. The provisions of this Chapter do not confer or
impose legal rights or obligations and are not enforceable
in any court or tribunal. No question of inconsistency
with such provisions shall be raised in any court or
tribunal.
Principles
of State
Policy and
fundamental
duties not
justifiable
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 23
CHAPTER VII
THE EXECUTIVE
The President of the Republic
16[30. (1) There shall be a President of the
Republic of Sri Lanka, who is the Head of the State,
the Head of the Executive and of the Government,
and the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces.
(2) The President of the Republic shall be
elected by the People, and shall hold office for a term
of five years.]
31. (1) Any citizen who is qualified to be
elected to the office of President may be nominated as
a candidate for such office –
(a) by a recognized political party; or
(b) if he is or has been an elected member of
the legislature, by any other political party
or by an elector whose name has been
entered in any register of electors.

17[(2) No person who has been twice elected to
the office of President by the People, shall be qualified
thereafter to be elected to such office by the People.]
(3) The poll for the election of the President shall
be taken not less than one month and not more than two
months before the expiration of the term of office of the
President in office.
18[(3A) (a) (i) Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in the preceding provisions of this Chapter, the
President may, 19[at any time after the expiration of four
The
President
of the
Republic
16 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 3.
17 - Inserted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4(1).
18 - Inserted by the Third Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2(1).
19 - Substituted by the Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2(2)(a).
The election
and the
term of
office of the
President
24 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
years from the 20[commencement of his first term of office,]
by Proclamation, declare his intention] of appealing to the
People for a mandate to hold office, 21[by election, for a
second term.]
22[Repealed]
(ii) Upon the making of a Proclamation under
sub-paragraph (i) the Commissioner of Elections shall be
required to take a poll for the election of the President.
(b) If, at any time after the date of Proclamation
referred to in paragraph (a), and before the close of the
poll at the election held in pursuance of such Proclamation,
the President in office dies, such Proclamation shall be
deemed to have been revoked with effect from the date
of such death and the election to be held in pursuance of
such Proclamation shall be deemed to be cancelled. The
vacancy in the office of the President caused by such
death shall be filled in accordance with the provisions of
Article 40.
(c) (i) If, at any time between the close of the poll at
an election held under this paragraph and the declaration
of the result of such election, a candidate at such election
dies, the Commissioner of Elections shall proceed with the
count and declare the result of such election,
notwithstanding the death of such candidate.
(ii) If the person entitled to be declared elected as
President is dead at the time of the declaration of the result
of such election, the Commissioner of Elections shall not
declare the result of such election but shall take a fresh
poll for the election of the President.
(iii) If by reason of the death referred to in
sub-paragraph (i) there is a vacancy in the office of President,
20 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4(2)(a)(i).
21 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2.
22 - Repealed by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4(2)(a)(ii).
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 25
the Prime Minister shall act in the office of President
during the period between the occurrence of such vacancy
and the assumption of office by the new President and
shall appoint one of the other Ministers of the Cabinet to
act in the office of Prime Minister:
Provided that if the office of Prime Minister be
then vacant or the Prime Minister is unable to act, the
Speaker shall act in the office of President.
(d) The person declared elected as President at an
election held under this paragraph shall, if such person –
(i) is the President in office, hold office 23[for a
term of five years] commencing on such date
in the year in which that election is held
(being a date after such election) or in the
succeeding year, as corresponds to the date
on which his first term of office commenced,
whichever date is earlier; or
(ii) is not the President in office, hold office,
24[for a term of five years] commencing on
the date on which the result of such election
is declared.
(e) A person succeeding to the office of President
under the provisions of Article 40 shall not be entitled
to exercise the right conferred on a President by
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph.
(f) For the purposes of this paragraph, the first
term of office of the first President referred to in
Article 160 shall be deemed to have commenced on
February 4, 1978.]
25[(4) Where a poll for the election of a President is
taken, the term of office of the person elected as President
23 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4(2)(b).
24 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4(2)(b).
25 - Substituted by the Third Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2(2).
26 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
at such election shall commence on the expiration of the
term of office of the President in office:
Provided that notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in Article 40 –
(a) if any person declared elected as President at
a poll for the election of a President dies at
any time after his being declared elected as
President and before the date on which his
term of office would, but for his death, have
commenced, the Commissioner of Elections,
shall take a fresh poll for the election of a
President. If the date fixed for such fresh poll
is a date later than such first-mentioned date,
the term of office of the person declared
elected at such poll shall, notwithstanding the
preceding provisions of this Article, be
deemed to have commenced on such firstmentioned date. For the purposes only of
Article 38(1)(d), the date of commencement
of the term of office of the new President
shall be the date of his election;
(b) where the President in office is not a
candidate or is not re-elected, at a poll for the
election of a President, his term of office
shall be deemed to have expired on the date
on which the result of such election is
declared. The person elected as President at
such election shall assume office forthwith,
but not later than two weeks from such date:
Provided that the President in office,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
Article 30, shall continue to exercise, perform
and discharge the powers, duties and functions
of the office of President until the assumption
of office by the person declared elected as 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 27
President. If the office of President becomes
vacant, by reason of the person declared
elected as President failing to assume office,
the President in office shall continue to exercise,
perform and discharge the powers, duties and
functions of the office of President, until the
Prime Minister or if the office of Prime Minister
be then vacant or if the Prime Minister be
unable to act, the Speaker commences to act in
the office of President in terms of Article 40;
(c) if by reason of the death referred to in
sub-paragraph (a) there is a vacancy in the
office of President, the Prime Minister shall
act in the office of President during the period
between the occurrence of such vacancy and
the assumption of office by the new President
and shall appoint one of the other Ministers
of the Cabinet to act as Prime Minister:
Provided that if the office of Prime
Minister be then vacant or the Prime Minister
is unable to act, the Speaker shall act in the
office of President.]
(5) The election of the President shall be conducted
by the Commissioner of Elections who shall fix the date
for the nomination of candidates for such election and the
date on which the poll shall be taken.
(6) Parliament shall by law make provision for –
(a) the nomination of candidates for the
election of President;
(b) the register of electors to be used at and
the procedure for the election of the
President;
(c) the creation of offences relating to such
election and the punishment therefor;
28 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(d) he grounds and manner of avoiding such
election and of determining any disputed
election; and
(e) all other matters necessary or incidental
thereto.
32. (1) The person elected or succeeding to the
office of President shall assume office upon taking and
subscribing the oath or making and subscribing the
affirmation, set out in the Fourth Schedule, in Sri Lanka
before the Chief Justice or any other Judge of the
Supreme Court.
(2) Upon such assumption of office the President
shall cease to hold any other office created or recognized
by the Constitution and if he is a Member of Parliament,
shall vacate his seat in Parliament. The President shall not
hold any other office or place of profit whatsoever.
26[(3) The President shall, by virtue of his office
attend Parliament once in every three months. In the
discharge of this function the President shall be entitled to
all the privileges, immunities and powers of a Member of
Parliament, other than the entitlement to vote, and shall
not be liable for any breach of the privileges of Parliament
or of its members.]
27[(4) The President shall by virtue of his office, also
have the right to address and send messages to
Parliament.]
33. In addition to the powers and functions expressly
conferred on or assigned to him by the Constitution or by
any written law, the President shall have the power -
Assumption
of office
26 - Substituted by the Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 3(1).
27 - Inserted by the Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 3(2).
28 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 3.
28[Powers
and
functions
of the
President
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 29
(a) to make the Statement of Government Policy
in Parliament at the commencement of each
session of Parliament;
(b) to preside at ceremonial sittings of Parliament;
(c) to ensure the creation of proper conditions for
the conduct of free and fair elections, at the
request of the Election Commission;
(d) to receive and recognize and to appoint and
accredit Ambassadors, High Commissioners,
Plenipotentiaries and other diplomatic agents;
(e) to appoint as President’s Counsel,
Attorneys-at-Law who have reached eminence
in the profession and have maintained high
standards of conduct and professional
rectitude. Every President’s Counsel appointed
under this paragraph shall be entitled to all
such privileges as were hitherto enjoyed by a
Queen’s Counsel;
(f) to keep the Public Seal of the Republic, and
to make and execute under the Public Seal
the acts of appointment of the Prime Minister
and other Ministers of the Cabinet of
Ministers, the Chief Justice and other Judges
of the Supreme Court, the President and other
Judges of the Court of Appeal and such grants
and dispositions of lands and immovable
property vested in the Republic as he is by
law required or empowered to do, and to use
the Public Seal for sealing all things
whatsoever that shall pass that Seal;
(g) to declare war and peace; and
(h) to do all such acts and things, not being
inconsistent with the provisions of the
30 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Constitution or written law, as by international
law, custom or usage he is required or
authorized to do.]
29[33A. Repealed]
34. (1) The President may in the case of any
offender convicted of any offence in any court within the
Republic of Sri Lanka –
(a) grant a pardon, either free or subject to
lawful conditions;
(b) grant any respite, either indefinite for such
period as the President may think fit, of the
execution of any sentence passed on such
offender;
(c) substitute a less severe form of punishment
for any punishment imposed on such
offender; or
(d) remit the whole or any part of any
punishment imposed or of any penalty or
forfeiture otherwise due to the Republic on
account of such offence:
Provided that where any offender shall have
been condemned to suffer death by the sentence of any
court, the President shall cause a report to be made to him
by the Judge who tried the case and shall forward such
report to the Attorney-General with instructions that after
the Attorney-General has advised thereon, the report shall
be sent together with the Attorney-General’s advice to the
Minister in charge of the subject of Justice, who shall
forward the report with his recommendation to the
President.
Grant of
Pardon
29 - Repealed by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 31
(2) The President may in the case of any person
who is or has become subject to any disqualification
specified in paragraph (d), (e), (f), (g) or (h) of Article 89
or sub-paragraph (g) of Paragraph (1) of Article 91 -
(a) grant a pardon, either free or subject to
lawful conditions; or
(b) reduce the period of such disqualification.
(3) When any offence has been committed for
which the offender may be tried within the Republic of
Sri Lanka, the President may grant a pardon to any
accomplice in such offence who shall give such
information as shall lead to the conviction of the principal
offender or of any one of such principal offenders, if
more than one.
30[35. (1) While any person holds office as President,
no proceedings shall be instituted or continued against
him in any court or tribunal in respect of anything done or
omitted to be done by him either in his official or private
capacity:
Provided that nothing in this paragraph shall be
read and construed as restricting the right of any person to
make an application under Article 126 against the
Attorney-General, in respect of anything done or omitted
to be done by the President, in his official capacity:
Provided further that the Supreme Court shall
have no jurisdiction to pronounce upon the exercise of the
powers of the President under paragraph (g) of Article 33.
(2) Where provision is made by law limiting the
time within which proceedings of any description may be
brought against any person, the period of time during
which such person holds the office of President shall not
30 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 5.
Immunity of
President
from suit
32 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
be taken into account in calculating the period of time
prescribed by that law.
(3) The immunity conferred by the provisions of
paragraph (1) of this Article shall not apply to any
proceedings in any court in relation to the exercise of any
power pertaining to any subject or function assigned to the
President or remaining in his charge under paragraph (2)
of Article 44 or to proceedings in the Supreme Court
under paragraph (2) of Article 129 or to proceedings in
the Supreme Court under Article 130(a) relating to the
election of the President or the validity of a referendum or
to proceedings in the Court of Appeal under Article 144
or in the Supreme Court, relating to the election of a
Member of Parliament:
Provided that any such proceedings in relation
to the exercise of any power pertaining to any such
subject or function shall be instituted against the
Attorney-General.]
36. (1) Within one month of the commencement of
the Constitution, Parliament shall by resolution determine
the salary, allowances and pension entitlement of the
holders of the office of President. Such pension shall be in
addition to any other pension to which such person is
entitled by virtue of any prior service.
(2) Upon the assumption of the office of President
the holder of such office shall become entitled to the
receipt of such salary and allowances and thereafter, of
such pension as may be determined by Parliament. Any
subsequent amendment, repeal or replacement of this
Article and any subsequent law or any provision thereof
inconsistent with this Article shall not have retrospective
operation.
(3) The salary, allowances and pension of the
President shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.
Salary and
Pension
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 33
(4) Parliament may by resolution increase, but shall
not reduce, the salary, allowances or pension entitlement
of the holders of the office of President.
37. (1) If the President is of the opinion that by
reason of illness, absence from Sri Lanka or any other
cause he will be unable to exercise, perform and discharge
the powers, duties and functions of his office, he may
appoint the Prime Minister to exercise, perform and
discharge the powers, duties and functions of the office of
President during such period and may also appoint one of
the other Ministers of the Cabinet to act in the office of
Prime Minister during such period:
Provided that if the office of Prime Minister be
then vacant or the Prime Minister is unable to act, the
President may appoint the Speaker to exercise, perform
and discharge the powers, duties and functions of the
office of president during such period.
(2) If the Chief Justice in consultation with the
Speaker is of the opinion that the President is temporarily
unable to exercise, perform and discharge the powers,
duties and functions of his office and is unable to make an
appointment in terms of paragraph (1) of this Article, he
shall communicate in writing his opinion to the Speaker
and thereupon the Prime Minister shall exercise, perform
and discharge the powers, duties and functions of the
office of President during such period and shall appoint
one of the Ministers of the Cabinet to act in the office of
Prime Minister during such period, notwithstanding the
absence of such appointment as is provided for in
paragraph (1) of this Article:
Provided that if the office of Prime Minister be
then vacant or the Prime Minister is unable to act, the
Speaker shall exercise, perform and discharge the powers,
duties and functions of the office of President during such
period.
Exercise,
performance
and
discharge of
powers,
duties and
functions of
the President
by the Prime
Minister
 
34 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(3) The provisions of the Constitution relating
to the President (other than the provisions of paragraph (2)
of Article 32) shall apply, in so far as they can be applied,
to the person so exercising, performing and discharging
the powers, duties and functions of the office of President.
(4) In this Article and in Articles 38(1)(b) and
40(1), “the Speaker” includes, during any period when
Parliament is dissolved, the person who held the office of
Speaker immediately before the dissolution of Parliament.
38. (1) The office of President shall become vacant –
(a) upon his death;
(b) if he resigns his office by a writing under
his hand addressed to the Speaker;
(c) if he ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;
(d) if the person elected as President wilfully
fails to assume office within 31[two
weeks] from the date of commencement
of his term of office;
(e) if he is removed from office as provided
in the next succeeding paragraph; or
(f) if the Supreme Court in the exercise
of its powers under Article 130(a)
determines that his election as
President was void and does not
determine that any other person was
duly elected as President.
(2) (a) Any Member of Parliament may, by a
writing addressed to the Speaker, give notice of a
resolution alleging that the President is permanently
incapable of discharging the functions of his office by
31 - Substituted by the Third Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 3.
Vacation of
office by
President
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 35
reason of mental or physical infirmity or that the President
has been guilty of –
(i) intentional violation of the Constitution,
(ii) treason,
(iii) bribery,
(iv) misconduct or corruption involving the
abuse of the powers of his office, or
(v) any offence under any law, involving
moral turpitude and setting out full
particulars of the allegation or allegations
made and seeking an inquiry and report
thereon by the Supreme Court.
(b) No notice of such resolution shall be
entertained by the Speaker or placed on the Order Paper of
Parliament unless it complies with the provisions of sub
-paragraph (a) and –
(i) such notice of resolution is signed by
not less than two-thirds of the whole
number of Members of Parliament; or
(ii) such notice of resolution is signed by not
less than one-half of the whole number of
Members of Parliament and the Speaker
is satisfied that such allegation or
allegations merit inquiry and report by
the Supreme Court.
(c) Where such resolution is passed by not
less than two-thirds of the whole number of Members
(including those not present) voting in its favour, the
allegation or allegations contained in such resolution shall
be referred by the Speaker to the Supreme Court for inquiry
and report.
36 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(d) The Supreme Court shall, after due inquiry at
which the President shall have the right to appear and to be
heard, in person or by an Attorney-at-Law, make a report of
its determination to Parliament together with the reasons
therefor.
(e) Where the Supreme Court reports to
Parliament that in its opinion the President is permanently
incapable of discharging the functions of his office by
reason of mental or physical infirmity or that the President
has been guilty of any of the other allegations contained in
such resolution, as the case may be, Parliament may by a
resolution passed by not less than two-thirds of the whole
number of Members (including those not present) voting in
its favour remove the President from office.
39. (1) Where the Supreme Court in the exercise of its
jurisdiction under Article 130 determines –
(a) that the election of the President was void
and does not determine that any other
person was duly elected, then, a poll for
the election of the President shall be taken
not later than three months from the date of
the determination; or
(b) that any other person was duly elected as
President, then, such other person shall
assume the office of President within one
month of the date of the determination.
For the purposes of Article 38(1)(d), the date of
commencement of the term of office of the new President
shall be the date of his election or the date of the
determination, as the case may be.
(2) Upon the Supreme Court making any such
determination as is referred to in paragraph (1) of this
Article, the person who was exercising, performing and
Determination
by the
Supreme
Court that
the President
was not duly
elected or the
election of the
President was
void
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 37
discharging the powers, duties and functions of the office
of President shall forthwith cease to exercise, perform and
discharge such powers, duties and functions. During the
period intervening between the date of such determination
and the assumption of office by the new President, the
Prime Minister shall act in the office of President and
shall appoint one of the other Ministers of the Cabinet to
act in the office of the Prime Minister:
Provided that if the office of Prime Minister be
then vacant or the Prime Minister is unable to act, the
Speaker shall act in the office of the President.
(3) For the purposes of Article 30(2) and
notwithstanding the provisions of Article 31(4), the term
of office of the new President shall be deemed to have
commenced on the date on which the term of office of
the person whose election was determined to have been
void or undue would, but for such determination, have
commenced.
(4) The exercise, performance and discharge by any
person of the powers, duties and functions of the office
of President shall not be invalid by reason only of the
fact that the Supreme Court subsequently determines that
the election of such person as President was void or
undue.
(5) The provisions of this Article shall apply
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Article 40.
40. (1) (a) If the office of President shall become
vacant prior to the expiration of his term of office,
Parliament shall elect as President one of its Members
who is qualified to be elected to the office of President.
Any person so succeeding to the office of President shall
hold office only for the unexpired period of the term of
office of the President vacating office.
Vacation of
office by
President
and
election of
succeeding
President
38 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(b) Such election shall be held as soon
as possible after, and in no case later than one month
from, the date of, occurrence of the vacancy. Such
election shall be by secret ballot and by an absolute
majority of the votes cast in accordance with such
procedure as Parliament may by law provide:
Provided that if such vacancy
occurs after the dissolution of Parliament, the President
shall be elected by the new Parliament within one month
of its first meeting.
(c) During the period between the
occurrence of such vacancy and the assumption of office
by the new President, the Prime Minister shall act in
the office of President and shall appoint one of the
other Ministers of the Cabinet to act in the office of
Prime Minister:
Provided that if the office of Prime
Minister be then vacant or the Prime Minister is unable to
act, the Speaker shall act in the office of President.
(2) The provisions of the Constitution relating to
the President (other than the provisions of paragraph (2)
of Article 32) shall apply, in so far as they can be applied,
to an acting President.
(3) Parliament shall by law provide for all matters
relating to the procedure for the election of the President
by Parliament and all other matters necessary or
incidental thereto.
41. (1) The President shall have the power to
appoint such Secretaries, and, in consultation with the
Cabinet of Ministers, such other officers and staff as are
in his opinion necessary to assist him in the exercise,
performance and discharge of the powers, duties and
functions of his office, and to determine their terms and
conditions of service.
President's
staff
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 39
(2) The salaries of such Secretaries, officers and
staff shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.
(3) Such Secretaries, officers and staff shall be
deemed to be public officers except that the dismissal
and disciplinary control of such Secretaries, officers and
staff shall be vested in the President, who may delegate to
any such Secretary his powers of dismissal and
disciplinary control in respect of any such officers or staff.
(4) Every such Secretary, officer or member of the
staff shall cease to hold office upon a new President
assuming office.
(5) Where any such Secretary, officer or member of
the staff so ceases to hold office, the Cabinet of Ministers
may appoint such Secretary, officer or member of the staff
to any post in the Public Service:
Provided that any such Secretary, officer or member
of the staff who immediately prior to his appointment as
Secretary, officer or member of the staff was in the Public
or Local Government Service or in the service of a Public
Corporation shall be entitled to revert to such service
without loss of seniority upon a new President assuming
office.
(6) The proviso to paragraph (5) of this Article shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply to any person referred to in that
proviso upon–
(a) the President terminating the services
of such person, otherwise than by
dismissal on disciplinary grounds; or
(b) the resignation of such person, unless
disciplinary proceedings are pending or
contemplated against such person on the
date of his resignation.
40 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(7) For the purposes of paragraphs (5) and (6) of
this Article any person who has continuously held the
office of Secretary to the President, Secretary to any
Ministry or any office in the President’s staff or any one
or more of such offices shall be deemed to have
continuously held the office which such person last held.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 41
32[CHAPTER VII A
THE CONSTITUTIONAL COUNCIL
41A. (1) There shall be a Constitutional Council
(in this Chapter referred to as the “Council”) which shall
consist of the following members:–
(a) the Prime Minister;
(b) the Speaker;
(c) the Leader of the Opposition in Parliament;
(d) one Member of Parliament appointed by the
President;
(e) five persons appointed by the President, upon
being nominated as follows:-
(i) one Member of Parliament nominated
by agreement of the majority of the
Members of Parliament representing the
Government;
(ii) one Member of Parliament nominated
by agreement of the majority of the
Members of Parliament of the political
party or independent group to which the
Leader of the Opposition belongs; and
(iii) three persons nominated by the Speaker
by agreement of the Prime Minister and
the Leader of the Opposition; and
(f) one Member of Parliament nominated by
agreement of the Members of Parliament
other than those representing the Government
and those belonging to the political party or
independent group to which the Leader of
the Opposition belongs, and appointed by the
President.
32 - Chapter VII A substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2.
Constitution
of the
Constitutional
Council
42 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(2) The Speaker shall be the Chairman of the Council.
(3) It shall be the duty of the Speaker to ensure
that nominations for appointments under sub-paragraph
(e) or sub-paragraph (f) of paragraph (1) are made, whenever
an occasion for such nominations arises.
(4) in nominating the five persons referred to in
sub-paragraph (e) of paragraph (1), the Prime Minister, the
Speaker and the Leader of the Opposition or the Members
of Parliament, as the case may be, shall ensure that the
Council reflects the pluralistic character of Sri Lankan
society, including professional and social diversity.
(5) The persons who are not Members of Parliament
to be appointed under sub-paragraph (e) of paragraph (1)
shall be persons of eminence and integrity who have
distinguished themselves in public or professional life
and who are not members of any political party whose
nomination shall be approved by Parliament.
(6) The President shall, within fourteen days of
the receipt of a written communication specifying the
nominations made under sub-paragraphs (e) and (f) of
paragraph (1), make the necessary appointments.
(7) (a) On the dissolution of Parliament, notwithstanding
the provisions of paragraph (2) of Article 64, the Speaker
shall continue to hold office as a member of the Council,
until a Member of Parliament is elected to be the Speaker
under paragraph (1) of the aforesaid Article.
(b) Notwithstanding the dissolution of Parliament,
the Prime Minister, the Leader of the Opposition and the
Members of Parliament who are members of the Council,
shall continue to hold office as members of such Council,
until such time after a General Election following such
dissolution, a Member of Parliament is appointed as the
Prime Minister or recognized as the Leader of the Opposition
or such number of Members of Parliament are appointed 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 43
as Members of the Council under sub-paragraphs (d), (e)
and (f) of paragraph (1), as the case may be.
(8) (a) The member of the Council appointed under
sub-paragraph (d) of Paragraph (1), shall hold office
for a period of three years from the date of appointment
unless the member earlier resigns his office by writing
addressed to the President or is removed from office by
the President.
(b) Every member of the Council appointed
under sub-paragraphs (e) and (f) of paragraph (1) shall
hold office for a period of three years from the date
of appointment unless the member earlier resigns his
office by writing addressed to the President or is removed
from office by the President on a resolution passed by
the majority of the Members of Parliament (including
those not present) voting in its favour on the grounds of
physical or mental incapacity and is unable to function
further in office or is convicted by a court of law for any
offence involving moral turpitude or if a resolution for
the imposition of civic disability upon him has been
passed in terms of Article 81 of the Constitution or
is deemed to have vacated his office under paragraph (7)
of Article 41E.
(9) In the event of there being a vacancy among
the members appointed under sub-paragraphs (d), (e) or (f)
of paragraph (1), the President shall, within fourteen days
of the occurrence of such vacancy and having regard
to the provisions of the aforementioned sub-paragraphs,
appoint another person to succeed such member. Any
person so appointed, shall hold office during the
unexpired part of the period of office of the member
whom he succeeds.
(10) A member appointed under sub-paragraph
(d), (e) or (f) of paragraph (1), shall not be eligible for
re-appointment.
44 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(11) The appointments made by the President under
sub-paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of paragraph (1), shall be
communicated to the Speaker.
41B. (1) No person shall be appointed by the
President as the Chairman or a member of any of the
Commissions specified in the Schedule to this Article,
except on a recommendation of the Council.
(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article
shall apply in respect of any person appointed to act as the
Chairman or as a member of any such Commission.
(3) It shall be the duty of the Council to recommend
to the President fit and proper persons for appointment
as Chairmen or members of the Commissions specified
in the Schedule to this Article, whenever the occasion
for such appointments arises, and such recommendations
shall endeavour to ensure that such recommendations
reflect the pluralistic character of Sri Lankan society,
including gender. In the case of the Chairmen of such
Commissions, the Council shall recommend three persons
for appointment, and the President shall appoint one of the
persons recommended as Chairman.
(4) The President shall appoint the Chairmen and the
members of the Commissions specified in the Schedule
to this Article, within fourteen days of receiving the
recommendations of the Council for such appointments.
(5) No person appointed under paragraph (1) or
a person appointed to act as the Chairman or a member of
any such Commission, shall be removed except as provided
for in the Constitution or in any written law, and where
there is no such provision, such person shall be removed
by the President only with the prior approval of the Council.
(6) All the Commissions referred to in the
Schedule to this Article shall be responsible and
answerable to Parliament.
Council to
recommend
appointments
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 45
SCHEDULE
(a) The Election Commission.
(b) The Public Service Commission.
(c) The National Police Commission.
(d) The Audit Service Commission.
(e) The Human Rights Commission of Sri
Lanka.
(f) The Commission to Investigate Allegations
of Bribery or Corruption.
(g) The Finance Commission.
(h) The Delimitation Commission.
(i) The National Procurement Commission.
41C. (1) No person shall be appointed by the
President to any of the Offices specified in the Schedule
to this Article, unless such appointment has been approved
by the Council upon a recommendation made to the
Council by the President.
(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article
shall apply in respect of any person appointed to act for a
period exceeding fourteen days, in any Office specified in
the Schedule to this Article:
Provided that no person shall be appointed to
act in any such office for successive periods not exceeding
fourteen days, unless such acting appointment has been
approved by the Council on a recommendation by the
President.
(3) No person appointed to any Office specified in
the Schedule to this Article or to act in any such Office,
shall be removed from such Office except as provided
for in the Constitution or in any law.
Council to
approve
appointments
46 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(4) In the discharge of its function relating to the
appointment of Judges of the Supreme Court and the
President and Judges of the Court of Appeal, the Council
shall obtain the views of the Chief Justice.
SCHEDULE
PART I
(a) The Chief Justice and the Judges of the
Supreme Court.
(b) The President and the Judges of the Court of
Appeal.
(c) The Members of the Judicial Service
Commission, other than the Chairman.
PART II
(a) The Attorney-General.
(b) The Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka.
(c) The Auditor-General.
(d) The Inspector-General of Police.
(e) The Parliamentary Commissioner for
Administration (Ombudsman)
(f) The Secretary-General of Parliament.
4lD. (1) There shall be a Secretary-General to the
Council who shall be appointed by the Council for a term
of three years. Upon the expiration of his term of office,
the Secretary­General shall be eligible for re-appointment.
(2) The Council may appoint such officers as it
considers necessary for the discharge of its functions, on
such terms and conditions as may be determined by the
Council.
SecretaryGeneral and
other officers
of the Council
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 47
41E. (1) The Council shall meet at least twice every
month, and as often as may be necessary to discharge the
functions assigned to the Council by the provisions of
this Chapter or by any law, and such meetings shall be
summoned by the Secretary-General to the Council on the
direction of the Chairman of the Council.
(2) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of
the Council and in the absence of the Chairman, the Prime
Minister, and in the absence of the Prime Minister, the
Leader of the Opposition shall preside at the meetings
of the Council.
(3) The quorum for any meeting of the Council shall
be five members.
(4) The Council shall endeavour to make every
recommendation, approval or decision it is required to
make by unanimous decision and in the absence of a
unanimous decision, no recommendation, approval or
decision made by the Council shall be valid, unless
supported by not less than five members of the Council
present at such meeting.
(5) The Chairman or the other member presiding
shall not have an original vote, but in the event of an
equality of votes on any question for decision at any
meeting of the Council, the Chairman or other member
presiding at such meeting, shall have a casting vote.
(6) The Procedure in regard to meetings of the
Council and the transaction of business at such meetings
shall be determined by the Council, including procedures
to be followed in regard to the recommendation or
approval of persons suitable for any appointment under
Article 41B or Article 41C.
(7) Any member of the Council appointed under
sub-paragraphs (d), (e), or (f) of paragraph (1) of Article
41A, who without obtaining prior leave of the Council
Meetings of
the Council
48 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the
Council, shall be deemed to have vacated office with effect
from the date of the third of such meetings.
(8) The Council shall have the power to act
notwithstanding the fact that it has not been fully
constituted or that there is a vacancy in its membership.
No act, proceeding or decision of the Council carried out
or made by the majority vote of the members shall be
or deemed to be invalid by reason only of the fact that
the Council has not been fully constituted or that there
has been a vacancy in its membership or that there has
been any defect in the appointment of a member.
41F. Notwithstanding the expiration of the term of
office of the members of the Council or of the members of
any Commission specified in the Schedule to Article 41B,
the members of the Council or of such other Commission
shall continue in office until the assumption of office
by the new members of the Council or of such other
Commission.
41G. (1) The Council shall, once in every three
months, submit to the President and Parliament a report
of its activities during the preceding three months.
(2) The Council shall perform and discharge such
other duties and functions as may be imposed or assigned
to the Council by the Constitution, or by any other written
law.
(3) The Council shall have the power to make rules
relating to the performance and discharge of its duties and
functions. All such rules shall be published in the Gazette
and be placed before Parliament within three months of
such publication.
41H. The expenses incurred by the Council shall be
charged on the Consolidated Fund.
Continuation
in office of
the members
of the
Council
Powers and
duties of the
Council
Expenses to
be charged
on the
Consolidated
Fund
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 49
41J. Subject to the provisions of Article 126, no
court shall have the power or jurisdiction to entertain, hear
or decide or call in question, on any ground whatsoever,
or in any manner whatsoever, any decision of the Council
or any approval or recommendation made by the Council,
which decision, approval or recommendation shall be
final and conclusive for all purposes.]
Finality of
decisions of
the Council
50 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
33[CHAPTER VIII
THE EXECUTIVE
 The Cabinet of Ministers
42. The President shall be responsible to Parliament
for the due exercise, performance and discharge of his
powers, duties and functions under the Constitution and
any written law, including the law for the time being
relating to public security.
43. (1) There shall be a Cabinet of Ministers charged
with the direction and control of the Government of the
Republic.
(2) The Cabinet of Ministers shall be collectively
responsible and answerable to Parliament.
(3) The President shall be a member of the Cabinet
of Ministers and shall be the Head of the Cabinet of
Ministers:
Provided that, notwithstanding the dissolution
of the Cabinet of Ministers under the provisions of the
Constitution, the President shall continue in office.
(4) The President shall appoint as Prime Minister
the Member of Parliament, who, in the President's
opinion, is most likely to command the confidence of
Parliament.
44. (1) The President shall, in consultation with
the Prime Minister, where he considers such consultation
to be necessary, determine the number of Ministers of
the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministries and the
assignment of subjects and functions to such Ministers.
(2) The President shall, in consultation with the
Prime
Minister
and the
Cabinet of
Ministers
33 - Chapter VIII substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 3.
Ministers
and their
subjects and
functions
President to
be responsible
to Parliament
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 51
Prime Minister, appoint from among Members of Parliament,
Ministers, to be in charge of the Ministries so determined.
(3) The President shall be the Minister in charge
of the subject of Defence and may exercise, perform
and discharge the powers, duties and functions of any
Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers or any Minister
who is not a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, subject
to the provisions of the Constitution, for not exceeding
fourteen days during a period within which any subject
or function is not assigned to any such Minister under
the provisions of paragraph (1) of this Article or under
paragraph (1) of Article 45 and accordingly, any reference
in the Constitution or any written law to the Minster to
whom such subject or function is assigned, shall be read
and construed as a reference to the President:
Provided however, preceding provisions of this
paragraph shall not preclude the President from assigning
any subject or function to himself in consultation with
the Prime Minister and accordingly, any reference in
the Constitution or any written law to the Minister to
whom such subject or function is assigned, shall be read
and construed as a reference to the President.
(4) The President may at any time change the
assignment of subjects and functions and the composition
of the Cabinet of Ministers. Such changes shall not affect
the continuity of the Cabinet of Ministers and the continuity
of its responsibility to Parliament.
45. (1) The President may, in consultation with the
Prime Minister, appoint from among Members of
Parliament, Ministers who shall not be members of the
Cabinet of Ministers.
(2) The President may, in consultation with the
Prime Minister where he considers such consultation to be
Ministers
who are not
members of
the Cabinet
of Ministers
52 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
necessary, determine the assignment of subjects and functions
to Ministers appointed under paragraph (1) of this Article
and the Ministries, if any, which are to be in charge of,
such Ministers.
(3) The President may at any time change any
assignment made under paragraph (2).
(4) Every Minister appointed under paragraph (1)
shall be responsible and answerable to the Cabinet
of Ministers and to Parliament.
(5) Any Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers may,
by Notification published in the Gazette, delegate to
any Minister who is not a member of the Cabinet of
Ministers, any power or duty pertaining to any subject
or function assigned to such Cabinet Minister, or any
power or duty conferred or imposed on him by any
written law, and it shall be lawful for such other Minister
to exercise and perform any power or duty delegated
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the written
law by which that power or duty is conferred or imposed
on such Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers.
46. (1) The President may, in consultation with
the Prime Minister, appoint from among Members of
Parliament, Deputy Ministers to assist Ministers of the
Cabinet of Ministers in the performance of their duties.
(2) Any Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers may,
by Notification published in the Gazette, delegate to his
Deputy Minister, any power or duty pertaining to any
subject or function assigned to him or any power or duty
conferred or imposed on him by any written law, and
it shall be lawful for such Deputy Minister to exercise
and perform any power or duty delegated notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in the written law by which
that power or duty is conferred or imposed on such
Minister.
Deputy
Ministers
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 53
47. (1) The total number of -
(a) Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers
shall not exceed thirty; and
(b) Ministers who are not members of
the Cabinet of Ministers and Deputy
Ministers shall not, in the aggregate,
exceed forty.
(2) The Prime Minister shall continue to hold office
throughout the period during which the Cabinet of
Ministers continues to function under the provisions of the
Constitution unless he -
(a) is removed by a writing under the hand
of the President;
(b) resigns his office by a writing under
his hand addressed to the President; or
(c) ceases to be a Member of Parliament.
(3) A Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers, a Minister
who is not a member of the Cabinet of Ministers and a
Deputy Minister, shall continue to hold office throughout
the period during which the Cabinet of Ministers continues
to function under the provisions of the Constitution unless
he -
(a) is removed from office under the hand
of the President in consultation with the
Prime Minister;
(b) resigns from office by a writing under
his hand addressed to the President; or
(c) ceases to be a Member of Parliament.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph
(1) of this Article, where the recognized political party or
the independent group which obtains highest number of
Tenure of
office of the
Prime
Minister,
and the
limitation of
numbers
and tenure
of office of
Ministers
and Deputy
Ministers
54 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
seats in Parliament forms a National Government, the number
of Ministers in the Cabinet of Ministers, the number of
Ministers who are not Cabinet of Ministers and the number
of Deputy Ministers shall be determined by Parliament.
(5) For the purpose of paragraph (4), National
Government means, a Government formed by the recognized
political party or the independent group which obtains
the highest number of seats in Parliament together with
the other recognized political parties or the independent
groups.
48. (1) The Cabinet of Ministers functioning
immediately prior to the dissolution of Parliament shall,
notwithstanding such dissolution, continue to function and
shall cease to function upon the conclusion of the General
Election and accordingly, the Prime Minister and the
Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers, shall continue to
function unless they cease to hold office as provided in
sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph (2) or sub-paragraph (a) or
(b) of paragraph (3) of Article 47 and shall comply with the
criteria set out by the Commissioner-General of Elections
and shall not cause any undue influence on the General
Election.
(2) Notwithstanding the death, removal from office
or resignation of the Prime Minister, during the period
intervening between the dissolution of Parliament and the
conclusion of the General Election, the Cabinet of
Ministers shall continue to function with the other
Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers as its members, until
the conclusion of the General Election. The President may
appoint one such Minister to exercise, perform and
discharge the powers, duties and functions of the Prime
Minister.
(3) On the death, removal from office or resignation,
during the period intervening between the dissolution
of Parliament and the conclusion of the General Election,
Cabinet of
Ministers
after
dissolution of
Parliament
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 55
of a Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers, the President may,
in consultation with the Prime Minister, appoint any other
Minister to be the Minister in charge of the Ministry of such
Minister or to exercise, perform and discharge the powers,
duties and functions of such Minister.
49. (1) On the Prime Minister ceasing to hold
office by death, resignation or otherwise, except during the
period intervening between the dissolution of Parliament
and the conclusion of the General Election, the Cabinet
of Ministers shall, unless the President has in the exercise
of his powers under Article 70, dissolved Parliament,
stand dissolved and the President shall appoint a Prime
Minister, Ministers of the Cabinet of Ministers, Ministers
who are not members of the Cabinet of Ministers and
Deputy Ministers in terms of Articles 43, 44, 45 and 46:
Provided that if after the Prime Minister so
ceases to hold office, Parliament is dissolved, the Cabinet
of Ministers shall continue to function with the other
Ministers of the Cabinet as its members, until the conclusion
of the General Election. The President may appoint one
such Minister to exercise, perform and discharge the
powers, duties and functions of the Prime Minister, and
the provisions of Article 48 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply.
(2) If Parliament rejects the Statement of
Government Policy or the Appropriation Bill or passes a
vote of no-confidence in the Government, the Cabinet of
Ministers shall stand dissolved, and the President shall,
unless he has in the exercise of his powers under Article 70,
dissolved Parliament, appoint a Prime Minister, Ministers
of the Cabinet of Ministers and Deputy Ministers in terms
of Articles 43, 44, 45 and 46.
50. Whenever a Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers,
a Minister who is not a member of the Cabinet of Ministers
or a Deputy Minister is unable to discharge the functions
of his office, the President may, in consultation with the
Dissolution
of the
Cabinet of
Ministers
Acting
Ministers
and Deputy
Ministers
56 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Prime Minister, appoint any Member of Parliament to act
in the place of such Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers,
Minister who is not a member of the Cabinet of Ministers
or a Deputy Minister.
51. (1) (a) There shall be a Secretary to the Prime
Minister who shall be appointed by the President.
(b) The Secretary shall have charge of the
office of the Prime Minister and shall perform and
discharge the duties and functions of his office, subject
to the directions of the Prime Minister.
(2) (a) There shall be a Secretary to the Cabinet of
Ministers who shall be appointed by the President.
(b) The Secretary shall, subject to the direction
of the President, have charge of the Office of the Cabinet
of Ministers, and shall discharge and perform such other
functions and duties as may be assigned to him by the
President or the Cabinet of Ministers.
52. (1) There shall be a Secretary for every Ministry
of a Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers, who shall be
appointed by the President.
(2) The Secretary to a Ministry shall, subject to
the direction and control of his Minister, exercise
supervision over the departments of Government and
other institutions in charge of the Minister.
(3) Notwithstanding the dissolution of the Cabinet of
Ministers under the provisions of the Constitution, the
Secretary to a Ministry shall continue to hold office
until a new Secretary is appointed to such Ministry, in
terms of the provisions of the Constitution:
Provided however, the Secretary to a Ministry
shall cease to hold office upon a determination by the
President under Article 44 or 45 which results in such
Ministry ceasing to exist.
Secretary to
the Prime
Minister and
Secretary to
the Cabinet
of Ministers
Secretaries to
Ministries
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 57
(4) For the purposes of this Article, the office
of the Secretary to the President, the office of the
Secretary to the Cabinet of Ministers, the office of the
Auditor-General, the office of the Parliamentary
Commissioner for Administration (Ombudsman), the
office of the Secretary-General of Parliament, the
Constitutional Council, and the Commissions referred
to in the Schedule to Article 41B shall be deemed not
to be departments of Government.
53. A person appointed to any office referred to in
this Chapter shall not enter upon the duties of his office
until such person takes and subscribes the oath or makes
and subscribes the affirmations set out in the Fourth
Schedule and Seventh Schedule.]
Official
oath or
affirmation
58 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
34[CHAPTER IX
THE EXECUTIVE
The Public Service
54. 35[(1) There shall be a Public Service Commission
(in this Chapter referred to as the “Commission”) which
shall consist of nine members appointed by the President
on the recommendation of the Constitutional Council,
of whom not less than three members shall be persons
who have had over fifteen years experience as a public
officer. The President on the recommendation of the
Constitutional Council shall appoint one member as its
Chairman.]
(2) No person shall be appointed as a member of the
Commission or continue to hold office as such member if
he is or becomes a member of Parliament, a Provincial
Council or a local authority.
(3) Every person who immediately before his
appointment as a member of the Commission was a public
officer in the service of the State or a judicial officer, shall,
upon such appointment taking effect ceases to hold such
office and shall be ineligible for further appointment as a
public officer or a judicial officer:
Provided that any such person shall, until he ceases to
be a member of the Public Service Commission, or while
continuing to be a member, attains the age at which he
would, if he were a public officer or a judicial officer, as
the case may be, be required to retire, be deemed to be a
public officer or a judicial officer and to hold a pensionable
office in the service of the State, for the purpose of any
provision relating to the grant of pensions, gratuities and
other allowances in respect of such service.
34 - Chapter IX substituted by the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4.
35 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4(1).
Public
Service
Commission
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 59
36[(4) Every member of the Commission shall
hold office for a period of three years from the date of
appointment, unless the member becomes subject to any
disqualification under paragraph (2) or earlier resigns from
his office by writing addressed to the President or is
removed from office by the President with the approval
of the Constitutional Council or is convicted by a court of
law of any offence involving moral turpitude or if a resolution
for the imposition of civic disability upon the member has
been passed in terms of Article 81 or is deemed to have
vacated his office under paragraph (6).]
(5) A member of the Commission shall be eligible
for reappointment as a member, but shall not be eligible
for appointment as a public officer or a judicial officer
after the expiry of his term of office as a member. No
member shall be eligible to hold office as a member of the
Commission for more than two terms.
(6) A member of the Commission who without
obtaining prior leave of the Commission absents himself
from three consecutive meetings of the Commission, shall
be deemed to have vacated office with effect from the
date of the third of such meetings, and shall not be eligible
thereafter to be reappointed as a member of the
Commission.
37[(7) The President may grant a member leave from
the performance of his duties relating to the Commission
for a period not exceeding two months and shall, for the
duration of 38[such period, 39[on the recommendation of
the Constitutional Council,]] appoint a person qualified to
be a member of the Commission, to be a temporary
member for the period of such leave.]
36 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4(2).
37 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 10(3).
38 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 8(3).
39 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4(3).
60 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(8) A member of the Commission shall be paid such
emoluments as may be determined by Parliament. The
emoluments paid to a member of the Commission shall be
charged on the Consolidated Fund and shall not be
diminished during the term of office of such member.
(9) The Commission shall have the power to act
notwithstanding any vacancy in its membership, and
no act, proceeding or decision of the Commission shall
be or be deemed to be invalid by reason only of such
vacancy or any defect in the appointment of a member.
(10) There shall be a Secretary to the Commission
who shall be appointed by the Commission.
(11) The members of the Commission shall be
deemed to be public servants, within the meaning and for
the purposes of Chapter IX of the Penal Code.
55. (1) The Cabinet of Ministers shall provide for and
determine all matters of policy relating to public officers,
including policy relating to appointments, promotions,
transfers, disciplinary control and dismissal.
(2) The appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary
control and dismissal of all Heads of Department shall,
vest in the Cabinet of Ministers.
(3) Subject to the provisions of the Constitution, the
appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and
dismissal of public officers shall be vested in the Public
Service Commission.
(4) The Commission shall not derogate from the
powers and functions of the Provincial Public Service
Commissions as are established by law.
(5) The Commission shall be responsible and answerable
to Parliament in accordance with the provisions of the
40 - Substituted by the Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 8.
40[Powers and
functions of
the Cabinet
of Ministers
and of the
Commission
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 61
41 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 11.
42 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 12.
Standing Orders of Parliament for the exercise and
discharge of its powers and functions. The Commission
shall also forward to Parliament in each calendar year, a
report of its activities in respect of such year.]
56. (1) The Commission may delegate to a Committee
consisting of three persons (not being members of the
Commission) appointed by the Commission, the powers of
appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and
dismissal of such categories of public officers 41[as are
specified by the Commission.]
(2) The Commission shall cause the appointment of
any such Committee to be published in the Gazette.
(3) The procedure and quorum for meetings of any
such Committee shall be as determined by the Commission
by rules made in that behalf. The Commission shall cause
such rules to be published in the Gazette.
(4) There shall be a Secretary to each Committee,
who shall be appointed by the Commission.
57. (1) The Commission may delegate to a public
officer, subject to such conditions and procedure as may be
determined by the Commission, its powers of appointment,
promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of
such category of public officers 42[as are specified by the
Commission.]
(2) The Commission shall cause any such delegation
to be published in the Gazette, including the conditions
and procedure determined by the Commission for such
purpose.
58. (1) Any public officer aggrieved by an order
relating to a promotion, transfer, dismissal or an order
on a disciplinary matter made by a Committee or any
public officer under Article 56 or Article 57, in respect of
Committees
of the
Commission
Right of
appeal
Delegation
of powers
to a public
officer
62 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
the officer so aggrieved, may appeal to the Commission
against such order in accordance with such rules made by
the Commission from time to time, relating to the procedure
to be followed in the making, hearing and determination of
an appeal made to the Commission and the period fixed
within which an appeal should be heard and concluded.
(2) The Commission shall have the power upon such
appeal to alter, vary, rescind or confirm an order against
which an appeal is made, or to give directions in relation
thereto, or to order such further or other inquiry as to the
Commission shall seem fit.
(3) The Commission shall cause to be published in
the Gazette the rules made by it under paragraph (1) of this
Article.
59. (1) There shall be an Administrative Appeals
Tribunal appointed by the Judicial Service Commission.
(2) The Administrative Appeals Tribunal shall have
the power to alter, vary or rescind any order or decision
made by the Commission.
(3) The constitution, powers and procedure of such
Tribunal, including the time limits for the preferring of
appeals, shall be provided for by law.
60. Upon delegation of any of its powers to a
Committee or a public officer appointed under Article 56
or Article 57 as the case may be, the Commission shall
not, while such delegation is in force, exercise or perform
its functions or duties in regard to the categories of public
officers in respect of which such delegation is made, subject
to the provisions contained in paragraphs (1) and (2) of
Article 58.
61. (1) The quorum for a meeting of the Commission
shall be five members.
(2) All decisions of the Commission shall be made by
Commission
not to
exercise
power where
there is
delegation
Administrative
Appeals
Tribunal
Procedure
at meetings
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 63
a majority of votes of the members present at the
meeting. In the event of an equality of votes, the member
presiding at the meeting shall have a casting vote.
(3) The Chairman of the Commission shall preside
at all meetings of the Commission and in his absence, a
member elected by the members present from amongst
themselves, shall preside at such meeting.
61A. 43[Subject to the provisions of Article 59 and
of Article 126], no court or tribunal shall have power
or jurisdiction to inquire into, or pronounce upon or in
any manner call in question any order or decision made
by the Commission, a Committee, or any public officer,
in pursuance of any power or duty conferred or imposed
on such Commission, or delegated to a Committee or
public officer, under this Chapter or under any other law.
61B. Until the Commission otherwise provides, all
rules, regulations and procedures relating to the public
service as are in force on the date of the coming into
operation of this Chapter, shall, mutatis mutandis, be
deemed to continue in force as rules, regulations and
procedures relating to the public service, as if they had
been made or provided for under this Chapter.
61C. (1) Every person who, otherwise than in the
course of such person’s lawful duty, directly or indirectly
by himself or by or with any other person, in any manner
whatsoever influences or attempts to influence or interferes
with any decision of the Commission, or a Committee or a
public officer to whom the Commission has delegated any
power under this Chapter, or to so influence any member
of the Commission or a Committee, shall be guilty of an
offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not
exceeding one hundred thousand Rupees or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding seven years, or to both such
fine and imprisonment.
Immunity
from legal
Proceedings
Savings of
rules and
regulations
in force
Interference
with the
Commission
43 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 13. 
64 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
45[Appointments
by the
President
44 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 9.
45 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 10.
46 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 5.
47 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 6.
47[Interpretation
Oath or
affirmation
of office

(2) Every High Court established under Article 154P
of the Constitution shall have jurisdiction to hear and
determine any matter referred to in paragraph (1) of this
Article.
61D. A person appointed to any office referred to in
this Chapter shall not enter upon the duties of his office
until he takes and subscribes the oath or makes and
subscribes 44[the affirmations set out in the Fourth and
Seventh Schedules] to the Constitution.
61E. The President shall appoint -
(a) the Heads of the Army, the Navy and the
Air Force; and
(b) 46[on the approval at the Constitutional
Council,] the Attorney-General and the
Inspector-General of Police.]
61F. For the purposes of this Chapter, “public officer”
does not include a member of the Army, Navy or Air Force,
an officer of the Election Commission appointed by such
Commission, a police officer appointed by the National
Police Commission, a scheduled public officer appointed
by the Judicial Service Commission or a member of the Sri
Lanka State Audit Service appointed by the Audit Service
Commission.]]
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 65
CHAPTER X
THE LEGISLATURE
Parliament
62. 48[(1) There shall be a Parliament which shall
consist of two hundred and twenty-five Members elected
in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.]
49[(2) Unless Parliament is sooner dissolved, every
Parliament shall continue for five years from the date
appointed for its first meeting and no longer, and the
expiry of the said period of five years shall operate as a
dissolution of Parliament.]
63. Except for the purpose of electing the Speaker,
no Member shall sit or vote in parliament until he has
taken and subscribed the following oath, or made and
subscribed the following affirmation, before Parliament:–


solemnly declare and affirm
“I …… do –––––––––––––––––– that I will uphold
 swear
and defend the Constitution of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.”
64. (1) Parliament shall, at its first meeting after a
General Election, elect three Members to be respectively
the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker and Chairman of Committees
(hereinafter referred to as the “Deputy Speaker”) and the
Deputy Chairman of Committees thereof.
(2) A member holding office as the Speaker or the
Deputy Speaker or the Deputy Chairman of Committees
shall, unless he earlier resigns his office by a writing
under his hand addressed to the President or ceases to be a
Member, vacate his office on the dissolution of
Parliament.
Speaker,
Deputy
Speaker and
Deputy
Chairman of
Committees
Parliament
Official
oath or
affirmation
48 - Substituted by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 3.
49 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 15.
66 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(3) Whenever the office of Speaker, Deputy
Speaker or Deputy Chairman of Committees becomes
vacant otherwise than as a result of a dissolution of
Parliament, Parliament shall at its first meeting after the
occurrence of the vacancy elect another Member to be
the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker or the Deputy Chairman
of Committees, as the case may be.
(4) If Parliament, after having been dissolved, is
summoned under paragraph (7) of Article 70, each of the
Members mentioned in paragraph (2) of this Article shall,
notwithstanding anything therein, resume and continue to
hold his office while that Parliament is kept in session.
(5) The Speaker, or in his absence the Deputy
Speaker, or in their absence the Deputy Chairman of
Committees, shall preside at sittings of Parliament. If
none of them is present, a Member elected by Parliament
for the sitting shall preside at the sitting of Parliament.
50[65. (1) There shall be a Secretary-General of
Parliament who shall, 51[on the approval of the Constitutional
Council,] be appointed by the President and who shall hold
office during good behavior.]
(2) The salary of the Secretary-General shall be
determined by Parliament, shall be charged on the
Consolidated Fund and shall not be diminished during his
term of office.
(3) The members of the staff of the Secretary-General
shall be appointed by him with the approval of the Speaker.
(4) The salaries of the members of the staff of the
Secretary-General shall be charged on the Consolidated
Fund.
SecretaryGeneral
of Parliament
50 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 11(1).
51 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 7(1).
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 67
(5) The office of the Secretary-General shall become
vacant -
(a) upon his death;
(b) on his resignation in writing addressed to the
President;
(c) on his attaining the age of sixty years, unless
Parliament otherwise provides by law;
(d) on his removal by the President on account of
ill health or physical or mental infirmity; or
(e) on his removal by the President upon an
address of Parliament.
52[(6) Whenever the Secretary-General is unable to
discharge the functions of his office, the President
may Subject to the approval of the Constitutional
Council, appoint a person to act in the place of the
Secretary-General.]
66. The seat of a Member shall become vacant –
(a) upon his death;
(b) If, by a writing under his hand addressed to
the Secretary-General of Parliament, he resigns
his seat;
(c) upon his assuming the office of President
consequent to his election to such office, either
by the People or by Parliament;
(d) if he becomes subject to any disqualification
specified in Article 89 or 91;
(e) if he becomes a member of the Public Service
or an employee of a public corporation or,
being a member of the Public Service or an
Vacation of
seats
52 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 7(2).
68 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Privileges,
immunities
and powers
of Parliament
and Members
Allowances
of Members
employee of a public corporation, does not
cease to be a member of such Service or an
employee of such corporation, before he sits
in Parliament;
(f) if, without the leave of Parliament first
obtained, he absents himself from the sittings
of Parliament during a continuous period of
three months;
(g) if his election as a Member is declared void
under the law in force for the time being;
(h) upon the dissolution of Parliament; or
(i) upon a resolution for his expulsion being
passed in terms of Article 81.
67. The privileges, immunities and powers of
Parliament and of its Members may be determined and
regulated by Parliament by law and until so determined
and regulated, the provisions of the Parliament (Powers
and Privileges) Act, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply.
68. (1) Ministers, Deputy Ministers and Members,
including the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker and the Deputy
Chairman of Committees, shall be paid such remuneration
or allowance as may be provided by Parliament, by law or
by resolution, and the receipt thereof shall not disqualify
the recipient from sitting or voting in Parliament.
(2) Until Parliament so provides, the remuneration
payable to Ministers, Deputy Ministers and Members,
including the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker and the
Deputy Chairman of Committees, shall be the same as
the remuneration paid to Ministers, Deputy Ministers
and Members including the Speaker, the Deputy Speaker
and the Deputy Chairman of Committees of the National
State Assembly immediately prior to the commencement
of the Constitution. 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 69
Powers of
Parliament
to act
notwithstanding
vacancies
69. Parliament shall have power to act
notwithstanding any vacancy in its membership and its
proceedings shall be valid notwithstanding that it is
discovered subsequently that a person who was not
entitled so to do sat or voted or otherwise took part in the
proceedings.
70 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
CHAPTER XI
THE LEGISLATURE
Procedure and Powers
70. 53[(1) The President may, from time to time, by
Proclamation summon, prorogue and dissolve Parliament:
Provided that –
(a) subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (d),
the President shall not dissolve Parliament
until the expiration of a period of not less than two
years and six months from the date appointed for
its first meeting, unless Parliament by resolution
requests the President to dissolve Parliament;
(b) the President shall not dissolve Parliament on
the rejection of the Statement of Government
Policy at the commencement of the first session
of Parliament after a General Election;
(c) subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (d),
the President shall not dissolve Parliament after the
Speaker has entertained a resolution complying
with the requirements of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b)
of paragraph (2) of Article 38, unless –
(i) such resolution is not passed as required
by sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph (2) of
Article 38;
(ii) the Supreme Court determines and
reports that the President has not become
permanently incapable of discharging
the functions of his office or that the
President has not been guilty of any of
the other allegations contained in such
resolution;
53 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 12.
Sessions of
Parliament
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 71
(iii) the consequent resolution for the
removal of the President is not passed
as required by sub-paragraph (e) of
paragraph (2) of Article 38; or
(iv) Parliament by resolution requests the
President to dissolve Parliament;
(d) where the President has not dissolved Parliament
consequent upon the rejection by Parliament
of the Appropriation Bill, the President shall
dissolve Parliament if Parliament rejects the
next Appropriation Bill.]
(2) Parliament shall be summoned to meet once at
least in every year.
(3) A Proclamation proroguing Parliament shall fix a
date for the next session, not being more than two months
after the date of the Proclamation:
Provided that at any time while Parliament
stands prorogued the President may by Proclamation –
(i) summon Parliament for an earlier date,
not being less than three days from the
date of such Proclamation; or
(ii) subject to the provisions of this Article,
dissolve Parliament.
 (4) All matters which, having been duly brought
before Parliament, have not been disposed of at the time of
the prorogation of Parliament, may be proceeded with
during the next session.
 (5) (a) A Proclamation dissolving Parliament
shall fix a date or dates for the election of Members of
Parliament, and shall summon the new Parliament to meet
on a date not later than three months after the date of such
Proclamation.
72 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(b) Upon the dissolution of Parliament by
virtue of the provisions of paragraph (2) of Article 62, the
President shall forthwith by Proclamation fix a date or
dates for the election of Members of Parliament, and
shall summon the new Parliament to meet on a date not
later than three months after the date of such Proclamation.
(c) The date fixed for the first meeting of
Parliament by a Proclamation under sub-paragraph (a) or
sub-paragraph (b) may be varied by a subsequent
Proclamation, provided that the date so fixed by the
subsequent Proclamation shall be a date not later than
three months after the date of the original Proclamation.
(6) Where the poll for the election of the President is
to be taken on a date which falls between the date of dissolution
of Parliament and the date before which Parliament is
required by paragraph (5) of this Article to be summoned
to meet, Parliament shall, notwithstanding anything in that
paragraph, be summoned to meet on a date not later than
four months after the date of dissolution of Parliament.
(7) If at any time after the dissolution of
Parliament, the President is satisfied that an emergency
has arisen of such a nature that an earlier meeting of
Parliament is necessary, he may by Proclamation summon
the Parliament which has been dissolved to meet on
a date not less than three days from the date of such
Proclamation and such Parliament shall stand dissolved
upon the termination of the emergency or the conclusion
of the General Election, whichever is earlier.
71. Parliament may adjourn from time to time
as it may determine by resolution or Standing Order,
until it is prorogued or dissolved.
72. (1) Save as otherwise provided in the Constitution
any question proposed for decision by Parliament shall
be decided by the majority of votes of the Members
present and voting.
Adjournment
Voting
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 73
(2) The person presiding shall not vote in the first
instance but shall have and exercise a casting vote in the
event of an equality of votes.
73. If at any time during a meeting of Parliament
the attention of the person presiding is drawn to the fact
that there are fewer than twenty Members present, the
person presiding shall, subject to any Standing Order,
adjourn the sitting without question put.
74. (1) Subject to the provisions of the Constitution,
Parliament may by resolution or Standing Order provide
for –
(i) the election and retirement of the Speaker,
the Deputy Speaker and the Deputy Chairman
of Committees; and

(ii) the regulation of its business, the preservation
of order at its sittings and any other matter
for which provision is required or authorized
to be so made by the Constitution.
(2) Until Parliament otherwise provides by law or by
resolution, the Standing Order of the National State
Assembly, operative immediately prior to the commencement
of the Constitution, shall, mutatis mutandis, be the Standing
Orders of Parliament.
75. Parliament shall have power to make laws,
including laws having retrospective effect and repealing
or amending any provision of the Constitution, or adding
any provision to the Constitution:
Provided that Parliament shall not make any law –
(a) suspending the operation of the Constitution
or any part thereof; or
(b) repealing the Constitution as a whole unless
such law also enacts a new Constitution to
replace it.
Legislative
power
Quorum
Standing
Orders
74 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
76. (1) Parliament shall not abdicate or in any
manner alienate its legislative power and shall not set up
any authority with any legislative power.
(2) It shall not be a contravention of the provisions
of paragraph (1) of this Article for Parliament to make, in
any law relating to public security, provision empowering
the President to make emergency regulations in accordance
with such law.
(3) It shall not be a contravention of the provisions
of paragraph (1) of this Article for Parliament to make any
law containing any provision empowering any person or
body to make subordinate legislation for prescribed
purposes, including the power –
(a) to appoint a date on which any law or any
part thereof shall come into effect or cease
to have effect;
(b) to make by order any law or any part thereof
applicable to any locality or to any class of
persons; and
(c) to create a legal person, by an order or an Act.
in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph,
“law” includes existing law.
(4) Any existing law containing any such provision
as aforesaid shall be valid and operative.
77. (1) It shall be the duty of the Attorney-General
to examine every Bill for any contravention of the
requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of Article 82 and
for any provision which cannot be validly passed except
by the special majority prescribed by the Constitution;
and the Attorney-General or any officer assisting the
Attorney-General in the performance of his duties under
this Article shall be afforded all facilities necessary for
the performance of such duties.
Delegation of
legislative
power
Duties of
AttorneyGeneral in
regard to
published
Bills
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 75
(2) If the Attorney-General is of the opinion that a
Bill contravenes any of the requirements of paragraphs (1)
and (2) of Article 82 or that any provision in a Bill cannot
be validly passed except by the special majority prescribed
by the Constitution, he shall communicate such opinion to
the President:
Provided that in the case of an amendment
proposed to a Bill in Parliament, the Attorney-General
shall communicate his opinion to the Speaker at the stage
when the Bill is ready to be put to Parliament for its
acceptance.
78. 54[(1) Every Bill shall be published in the Gazette
at least seven days before it is placed on the Order Paper
of Parliament.]
(2) The passing of a Bill or a resolution by Parliament
shall be in accordance with the Constitution and the Standing
Orders of Parliament. Any one or more of the Standing Orders
may be suspended by Parliament in the circumstance and
in the manner prescribed by the Standing Orders.
55[(3) Any amendment proposed to a Bill in Parliament
shall not deviate from the merits and principles of such
Bill.]
79. The Speaker shall endorse on every Bill passed
by Parliament a certificate in the following form:–
“This Bill (here state the short title of the
Bill) has been duly passed by Parliament.”
Such certificate may also state the majority by which
such Bill was passed:
Provided that where by virtue of the provisions
of Article 82 or Article 83 or Article 84 or Article 123(2)
54 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 13(1).
55 - Inserted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 13(2).
Publication
of Bills and
passing of
Bills and
resolutions
Certificate of
Speaker
76 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
a special majority is required for the passing of a Bill, the
Speaker shall certify such Bill only if such Bill has been
passed with such special majority:
Provided further that where by virtue of Article
83, the Bill or any provision thereof requires the approval
of the People at a Referendum, such certificate shall
further state that the Bill or such provision shall not become
law until approved by the People at a Referendum.
80. (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (2) of
this Article, a Bill passed by Parliament shall become law
when the certificate of the Speaker is endorsed thereon.
(2) Where the Cabinet of Ministers has certified that
any Bill or any provision thereof is intended to be
submitted for approval by the People at a Referendum or
where the Supreme Court has determined that a Bill or
any provision thereof required the approval of the People
at a Referendum or where any Bill is submitted to the
People by Referendum under paragraph (2) of Article 85,
such Bill or such provision shall become law upon being
approved by the People at a Referendum in accordance
with paragraph (3) of Article 85 only when the President
certifies that the Bill or provision thereof has been so
approved. The President shall endorse on every Bill so
approved a certificate in the following form:
“This Bill/ provision has been 56[duly approved
by the People at a Referendum.”
No such certificate shall be endorsed by the
President on a Bill -
(a) in any case where no petition is filed
challenging the validity of the Referendum
at which such Bill was approved by the
People, until after the expiration of the
period within which a petition may be filed,
When Bill
becomes law
56 - Substituted by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4. 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 77
Expulsion
of Members
and
imposition
of civic
disability
under the law applicable in that behalf,
challenging the validity of such
referendum;
(b) in any case where a petition is filed
challenging the validity of the
Referendum at which such Bill was
approved by the People, until after the
Supreme Court determines that such
Referendum was valid.]
Every such certificate shall be final and conclusive
and shall not be called in question in any court.
(3) Where a Bill becomes law upon the certificate
of the President or the Speaker, as the case may be
being endorsed thereon, no court or tribunal shall
inquire into, pronounce upon or in any manner call in
question, the validity of such Act on any ground
whatsoever.
81. (1) Where a Special Presidential Commission
of Inquiry established under the Special Presidential
Commissions of Inquiry Law, No. 07 of 1978 and
consisting of a member each of whom is a Judge of the
Supreme Court, Court of Appeal, High Court or the
District Court recommends that any person should be
made subject to civic disability by reason of any act
done or omitted to be done by such person before or
after the commencement of the Constitution, Parliament
may by resolution pass by not less than two-thirds of the
whole number of Members (including those not present)
voting in its favour -
(a) impose civic disability on such person for
a period not exceeding seven years; and
(b) expel such person from Parliament, if he
is a Member of Parliament.
78 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Where a Special Presidential Commission of Inquiry
consists of more than one member, a recommendation
made by the majority of such members, in case of any
difference of opinion, shall be, and shall be deemed for all
purposes to be, the recommendation of such Commission
of Inquiry.
(2) No such resolution shall be entertained by the
Speaker or placed on the Order Paper of Parliament
unless introduced by the Prime Minister with the approval
of the Cabinet of Ministers.
(3) The Speaker shall endorse on every resolution
passed in accordance with the preceding provisions of this
Article a certificate in the following form :–
“This resolution has been duly passed by
Parliament in accordance with the provisions
of Article 81 of the Constitution.”
Every such Certificate shall be conclusive for all
purposes and shall not be questioned in any court,
and no court or tribunal shall inquire into, or pronounce
upon or in any manner call in question, the validity of
such resolution on any ground whatsoever.
(4) In this Article, “District Court” means a District
Court created and established by existing law and
includes a Court that may be created by Parliament to
exercise and perform powers and functions corresponding
or substantially similar to the powers and functions
exercised and performed by the District Court.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 79
CHAPTER XII
THE LEGISLATURE
Amendment of the Constitution
82. (1) No Bill for the amendment of any provision
of the Constitution shall be placed on the Order Paper of
Parliament, unless the provision to be repealed, altered or
added, and consequential amendments, if any, are
expressly specified in the Bill and is described in the long
title thereof as being an Act for the amendment of the
Constitution.
(2) No Bill for the repeal of the Constitution shall be
placed on the Order Paper of Parliament unless the Bill
contains provisions replacing the Constitution and is
described in the long title thereof as being an Act for the
repeal and replacement of the Constitution.
(3) If in the opinion of the Speaker, a Bill does
not comply with the requirements of paragraph (1) or
paragraph (2) of this Article, he shall direct that such Bill
be not proceeded with unless it is amended so as to
comply with those requirements.
(4) Notwithstanding anything in the preceding
provisions of this Article, it shall be lawful for a Bill
which complies with the requirements of paragraph (1) or
paragraph (2) of this Article to be amended by Parliament
provided that the Bill as so amended shall comply with
those requirements.
(5) A Bill for the amendment of any provision of the
Constitution or for the repeal and replacement of the
Constitution, shall become law if the number of votes cast
in favour thereof amounts to not less than two-thirds of
the whole number of Members (including those not
present) and upon a certificate by the President or the
Speaker, as the case may be, being endorsed thereon in
accordance with the provisions of Article 80 or 79.
Amendment or
repeal of the
Constitution
must be
expressed
80 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(6) No provision in any law shall, or shall be deemed
to, amend, repeal or replace the Constitution or any
provision thereof, or be so interpreted or construed, unless
enacted in accordance with the requirements of the
preceding provisions of this Article.
(7) In this Chapter, “amendment” includes repeal,
alteration and addition.
83. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
provisions of Article 82 –
(a) a Bill for the amendment or for the repeal
and replacement of or which is inconsistent
with any of the provisions of Articles 1,
2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 or of this
Article; and
(b) a Bill for the amendment or for the repeal
and replacement of or which is inconsistent
with the provisions of paragraph (2) of
Article 30 or of, paragraph (2) of Article
62 which would extend the term of office of
the President, or the duration of Parliament,
as the case may be, to over six years,
shall become law if the number of votes cast
in favour thereof amounts to not less than two-thirds of
the whole number of Members (including those not present),
is approved by the People at a Referendum and a certificate
is endorsed thereon by the President in accordance with
Article 80.
84. (1) A Bill which is not for the amendment of
any provision of the Constitution or for the repeal and
replacement of the Constitution, but which is inconsistent
with any provision of the Constitution may be placed on
the Order Paper of Parliament without complying with the
requirements of paragraph (1) or paragraph (2) of Article 82.
Approval
of certain
Bills at a
Referendum
Bills
inconsistent
with the
Constitution
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 81
(2) Where the Cabinet of Ministers has certified
that a Bill is intended to be passed by the special majority
required by this Article or where the Supreme Court
has determined that a Bill requires to be passed by such
special majority, such Bill shall become law only if the
number of votes cast in favour thereof amounts to not
less than two-thirds of the whole number of Members
(including those not present) and a certificate by the
President or the Speaker, as the case may be, is
endorsed thereon in accordance with the provisions
of Article 80 or 79.
(3) Such a Bill when enacted into law shall not,
and shall not be deemed to, amend, repeal or replace
the Constitution or any provision thereof, and shall
not be so interpreted or construed, and may thereafter
be repealed by a majority of the votes of the Members
present and voting.
82 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
CHAPTER XIII
THE REFERENDUM
85. (1) The President shall submit to the People by
Referendum every Bill or any provision in any Bill
which the Cabinet of Ministers has certified as being
intended to be submitted to the People by Referendum, or
which the Supreme Court has determined as requiring
the approval of the People at a Referendum if the
number of votes cast in favour of such Bill amounts to
not less than two-thirds of the whole number of Members
(including those not present).
57[(2) The President may in his discretion submit to
the People by Referendum any Bill (not being a Bill for
the repeal or amendment of any provision of the Constitution,
or for the addition of any provision to the Constitution, or
for the repeal and replacement of the Constitution, or which
is inconsistent with any provision of the Constitution),
which has been rejected by Parliament.]
(3) Any Bill or any provision in any Bill submitted
to the People by Referendum shall be deemed to be approved
by the People if approved by an absolute majority of the
valid votes cast at such Referendum:
Provided that when the total number of valid
votes cast does not exceed two-thirds of the whole number
of electors entered in the register of electors,such Bill shall
be deemed to be approved only if approved by not less
than one-third of the whole number of such electors.
86. The President may, subject to the provisions of
Article 85, submit to the People by Referendum any matter
which in the opinion of the President is of national
importance.
57 - Inserted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 14.
Submission
of matters of
national
importance to
people by
Referendum
Submission
of Bills to
people by
Referendum
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 83
Parliament
to provide for
procedure
87. (1) Every Referendum shall be conducted by the
Commissioner of Elections who shall communicate the
result thereof to the President.
(2) Parliament shall by law provide for all matters
relating to the procedure for the submission of Bills and
of matters of national importance to the People by
Referenda, the register of electors to be used at a
Referendum, the creation of offences relating thereto and
the punishment therefor and, all other matters necessary or
incidental thereto.
84 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
CHAPTER XIV
THE FRANCHISE AND ELECTIONS
88. Every person shall, unless disqualified as
hereinafter provided, be qualified to be an elector at the
election of the President and of the Members of
Parliament or to vote at any Referendum:
Provided that no such person shall be entitled to
vote unless his name is entered in the appropriate register
of electors.
89. No person shall be qualified to be an elector
at an election of the President, or of the Members of
Parliament or to vote at any Referendum, if he is subject
to any of the following disqualifications, namely –
(a) if he is not a citizen of Sri Lanka;
(b) if he has not attained the age of eighteen
years on the qualifying date specified by
law under the provisions of Article 101;
(c) if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka
found or declared to be of unsound mind;
(d) if he is serving or has during the period
of seven years immediately preceding
completed serving of a sentence of
imprisonment (by whatever name called)
for a term not less than six months
imposed after conviction by any court for
an offence punishable with imprisonment
for a term not less than two years or
is under sentence of death or is serving
or has during the period of seven years
immediately preceding completed the
serving of a sentence of imprisonment
for a term not less than six months awarded
in lieu of execution of such sentence:
Right to be an
elector
Disqualification
to be an elector
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 85
Provided that if any person disqualified under
this paragraph is granted a free pardon such disqualification
shall cease from the date on which the pardon is granted;
(e) if a period of seven years has not elapsed
since -
(i) the last of the dates, if any, of his being
convicted of any offence under section
52(1) or 53 of the Ceylon (Parliamentary
Elections) Order in Council, 1946, or
of such offence under the law for the time
being relating to Referenda or to the
election of the President or of Members of
Parliament as would correspond to an
offence under either of the said two
sections;
(ii) the last of the dates, if any, of his being
convicted of a corrupt practice under
the Ceylon (Parliamentary Elections)
Order in Council, 1946, or of such
offence under the law for the time
being relating to Referenda or to the
election of the President or of Members
of Parliament as would correspond to
the said corrupt practice;
(iii) the last of the dates, if any, being a
date after the commencement of the
Constitution, of a report made by a
Judge finding him guilty of any corrupt
practice under the Ceylon (Parliamentary
Elections) Order in Council, 1946, or
under any law for the time being relating
to Referenda or to the election of the
President or of Members of Parliament;
(iv) the last of the dates, if any, of his
being convicted or found guilty of
bribery under the provisions of the 
86 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Bribery Act or of any future law as
would correspond to the Bribery Act;
(f) if a period of five years has not elapsed since -
(i) the last of the dates, if any, of his
being convicted of any offence under
the provisions of sections 77 to 82 (both
inclusive) of the Local Authorities
Elections Ordinance or for such offence
under any future law as would
correspond to any offence under the
said sections; or
(ii) the last of the dates, if any, of his
being convicted of an offence under
the provisions of sections 2 and 3 of the
Public Bodies (Prevention of Corruption)
Ordinance or of such offence under any
future law as would correspond to the
said offence;
(g) if a period of three years has not elapsed since -
(i) the last of the dates, if any, of his being
convicted of an illegal practice under
the Ceylon (Parliamentary Elections)
Order in Council, 1946, or of such
offence under the law for the time being
relating to Referenda or to the election
of the President or of Members of
Parliament as would correspond to the
said illegal practice;
(ii) The last of the dates, if any, being a
date after the commencement of the
Constitution, of a report made by a Judge
finding him guilty of any illegal
practice under the Ceylon (Parliamentary
Elections) Order in Council, 1946, or 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 87
under any law for the time being relating
to Referenda or to the election of the
President or of Members of Parliament;
(h) if a resolution for the imposition of civic
disability upon him has been passed in terms
of Article 81, and the period of such civic
disability specified in such resolution has not
expired;
(i) if a period of seven years has not elapsed since -
(i) the date of his being convicted of any
offence under the provisions of sections
188 to 201 (both inclusive) of the Penal
Code or for such other offence under
any future law as would correspond to
any offence under the said sections; or
(ii) the date of his being convicted of an
offence of contempt against, or in
disrespect of, the authority of any Special
Presidential Commission of Inquiry
consisting of such member or members
specified in Article 81 by reason of –
(1) the failure of such person,
without cause which in the opinion
of such Commission is reasonable,
to appear before such Commission
at the time and place mentioned
in any summons which such
Commission is empowered by law
to issue; or
(2) the refusal of such person to be
sworn or affirmed, or the refusal
or failure of such person, without
cause which in the opinion of
such Commission is reasonable,
to answer any question put to 
88 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
such person touching the matters
directed to be inquired into by
such Commission; or
(3) the refusal or failure of such
person, without cause which in
the opinion of such Commission
is reasonable, to produce and
show to such Commission any
document or thing which is in
the possession or power of such
person and which in the opinion
of such Commission is necessary
for arriving at the truth of the
matters to be inquired into by
such Commission.
(j) if the period of his disqualification imposed
under 58[Article 116 or Article 111C, as the case
may be] has not elapsed.
90. Every person who is qualified to be an
elector shall be qualified to be elected as a Member of
Parliament unless he is disqualified under the provisions
of Article 91.
91. (1) No person shall be qualified to be elected as a
Member of Parliament or to sit and vote in Parliament –
(a) if he is or becomes subject to any of the
disqualifications specified in Article 89;
(b) if he -
(i) stands nominated as a candidate for
election for more than one electoral
district at a General Election,
(ii) stands nominated as a candidate for
election by more than one recognized
Qualification
for election as
a Member of
Parliament
58 - Substituted by the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 6.
Disqualification
for election as
a Member of
Parliament
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 89
political party or independent group in
respect of any electoral district,
(iii) stands nominated as a candidate for
election for an electoral district and
before the conclusion of the election
for that electoral district he stands
nominated as a candidate for election
for any other electoral district, or
(iv) being a Member of Parliament, except
in the circumstances referred to in
Article 70(7) or Article 155(4)(i), stands
nominated as a candidate for election
for any electoral district.
(c) if he is the President of the Republic;
(d) if he is -
(i) a judicial officer,
(ii) the Parliamentary Commissioner for
Administration,
(iii) the Secretary-General of Parliament or
a member of his staff,
59[(iv) a member of any Commission 60
[referred
to in the Schedule to Article 41B,]
(v) a member of a Provincial Public
Service Commission,
(va) the Commissioner-General of Elections,]
61[(vb) a member of the Constitutional Council
referred to in sub-paragraph (e) of
paragraph (1) of Article 41A, other
than any Member of Parliament,]
59 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 15(1).
60 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 8(1).
61 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 8(2).
90 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(vi) the Auditor-General,
62[(vii) 63[a public officer or a member of the
Sri Lanka State Audit Service holding
any office] created prior to November
18, 1970, the initial of the salary scale
of which was, on November 18, 1970,
not less than Rs. 6,720 per annum, or
such other amount per annum as would,
under any subsequent revision of salary
scales, correspond to such initial,
(viii) 64[a public officer or a member of the
Sri Lanka State Audit Service holding
any office] created after November 18,
1970, the initial of the salary scale of
which is, on the date of the creation
of that office, not less than the initial
of the salary scale applicable, on that
date, to an office referred to in item (vii)
or such other amount per annum as
would, under any subsequent revision
of salary scales, correspond to the
first-mentioned initial,]
65[(viiia) an officer of a Provincial Public Service
holding any office created after February
01, 1988, the initial of the salary scale
of which is, on the date of the creation
of that office, not less than such amount
as determined by resolution of Parliament,
or such other amount per annum as
would, under any subsequent revision
of such salary scales, correspond to
such initial,]
62 - Sec. (vii) - (xii) Substituted by the Ninth Amendment to the Constitution
Sec. 2.
63 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec.20 (2).
64 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec.20 (3).
65 - Inserted by the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 7(4).
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 91
(ix) an officer in any public corporation
holding any office created prior to
November 18, 1970, the initial of the
salary scale of which was, on
November 18, 1970, not less than
Rs. 7,200 per annum or such other
amount per annum as would, under any
subsequent revision of salary scales,
correspond to such initial,
(x) an officer in any public corporation
holding any office created after
November 18, 1970, the initial of the
salary scale of which is, on the date
of creation of that office, not less
than the initial of the salary scale
applicable on that date to an office
referred to in item (ix) or such other
amount per annum as would, under
any subsequent revision of salary scales,
correspond to the first-mentioned initial,
(xi) a member of the Regular Force of the
Army, Navy or Air Force, or
(xii) a police officer or a public officer
exercising police function,]
66[(xiii) a citizen of Sri Lanka who is also a
citizen of any other country,]
(e) if he has any such interest in any such
contract made by or on behalf of the State
or a public corporation as Parliament shall
by law prescribe;
(f) if he is an undischarged bankrupt or
insolvent, having been declared bankrupt
66 - Inserted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec.8(3).
92 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
or insolvent;
(g) if during the preceding seven years he
has been adjudged by a competent court
or by a Special Presidential Commission
of Inquiry to have accepted a bribe or
gratification offered with a view to
influencing his judgment as a Member of
Parliament or as a member of the
legislature prior to the commencement of
the Constitution.
(2) For the purposes of sub-paragraph (g) of
paragraph (1) of this Article, the acceptance by a Member
of Parliament of any allowance or other payment made
to him by any trade union or other organization solely
for the purpose of his maintenance shall be deemed not
to be the acceptance of a bribe or gratification.
92. Every person who is qualified to be an
elector shall be qualified to be elected to the office of
President unless he is subject to any of the following
disqualifications –
(a) if he has not attained the age of
67[thirty] years;
(b) if he is not qualified to be elected
as a Member of Parliament under
sub-paragraph (d), (e), (f) or (g) of
paragraph (1) of Article 91;
 68[(c) if he has been twice elected to the
office of President by the People; and]
(d) if he has been removed from the office
of President under the provisions of
sub-paragraph (e) of paragraph (2) of
Article 38.
67 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 16.
68 - Inserted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 21(2).
Disqualification
for election as
President
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 93
Election to be
free, equal
and secret
Election
of the
President

93. The voting for the election of the President of the
Republic and of the Members of Parliament and at any
Referendum shall be free, equal and by secret ballot.
94. (1) At the election of the President every voter
while casting his vote for any candidate may -
(a) where there are three candidates for election,
specify his second preference; and
(b) where there are more than three candidates
for election, specify his second and third
preferences.
(2) The candidate, if any, who receives more than
one-half of the valid votes cast shall be declared elected as
President.
(3) Where no candidate is declared elected under
paragraph (2) of this Article, the candidate or candidates,
other than the candidates who received the highest and
second highest number of such votes, shall be eliminated
from the contest, and –
(a) the second preference of each voter whose
vote had been for a candidate eliminated
from the contest, shall, if it is for one or the
other of the remaining two candidates, be
counted as a vote for such candidate and be
added to the votes counted in his favour
under paragraph (2); and
(b) the third preference of each voter referred
to in sub-paragraph (a) whose second
preference is not counted under that
sub-paragraph shall, if it is for one or the
other of the remaining two candidates,
be counted as a vote for such candidate and
be added to the votes counted in his favour
94 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
under sub-paragraph (a) and paragraph (2),
and the candidate who receives the majority of the
votes so counted shall be declared elected as President.
(4) Where an equality is found to exist between the
votes received by two or more candidates and the addition
of one vote would determine –
(a) which candidate is to be declared elected
under this Article; or
(b) which candidate is not to be eliminated
under this Article,
then the determination of the candidate to whom such
additional vote shall be deemed to have been given for the
purpose of such determination shall be made by lot.
95. (1) Within three months of the commencement of
the Constitution the President shall for the delimitation of
Electoral Districts, establish a Delimitation Commission
consisting of three persons appointed by him who he is
satisfied are not actively engaged in politics. The President
shall appoint one of such persons to be the Chairman.
(2) If any member of the Delimitation Commission
shall die or resign or if the President is satisfied that
any such member has become incapable of discharging
his functions as such, the President shall, in accordance
with the provisions of 69[paragraph (1) and on the
recommendation of the Constitutional Council, appoint]
another person in his place.
96. (1) The Delimitation Commission shall divide
Sri Lanka into not less than twenty and not more than
70[twenty-five] Electoral Districts and shall assign names
thereto.
69 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 9.
70 - Substituted by the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 3.
Delimitation
Commission
Electoral
Districts
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 95
(2) Each Province of Sri Lanka may itself constitute
an electoral district or may be divided into two or more
electoral districts.
(3) Where a Province is divided into a number of
electoral districts the Delimitation Commission shall have
regard to the existing administrative districts so as to
ensure as far as is practicable that each electoral district
shall be an administrative district or a combination of two
or more administrative districts or two or more electoral
districts together constitute an administrative district.
(4) The electoral districts of each Province shall
together be entitled to return four members, (independently
of the number of members which they are entitled to
return by reference to the number of electors whose names
appear in the registers of electors of such electoral districts)
and the Delimitation Commission shall apportion such
entitlement equitably among such electoral districts.
(5) In the event of a difference of opinion among the
members of the Delimitation Commission, the opinion of
the majority thereof shall prevail and shall be deemed to be
the decision of the Commission. Where each member of
the Commission is of a different opinion, the opinion of the
Chairman shall be deemed to be the decision of the
Commission. Any dissentient member may state his
reasons for such dissent.
(6) The Chairman of the Delimitation Commission
shall communicate the decisions of the Commission
together with the reasons, if any, stated by a dissentient
member to the President.
71[ 96A Repealed ]
97. The President shall by proclamation publish the
names and boundaries of the electoral districts and the
71 - Repealed by the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2.
Proclamation
of names, &c.
of Electoral
Districts
96 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
number of members, which each such electoral district is
entitled to return by virtue of the provisions of paragraph
(4) of Article 96 in accordance with the decision of the
Delimitation Commission. The electoral districts specified
in the Proclamation shall come into operation at the next
ensuing General Election of Members of Parliament and shall
thereafter be the electoral districts of Sri Lanka for all the
purposes of the Constitution and of any law for the time being
in force relating to the election of Members of Parliament.
98. (1) The several electoral districts shall together be
entitled to return one hundred and ninety-six members.
(2) The apportionment of the number of members that
each electoral district shall be entitled to return shall, in
the case of thirty-six members, be determined in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph (4) of Article 96.
(3) The apportionment of the number of members
that each electoral district shall be entitled to return out of
the balance number of one hundred and sixty members
shall be determined in accordance with the succeeding
provisions of this Article.
(4) The total number of electors whose names appear
in the registers of electors of all the electoral districts
shall be divided by one hundred and sixty. The whole
number, resulting from such division (any fraction not
being taken into account) is hereinafter referred to as the
“qualifying number”.
(5) The total number of electors whose names appear
in the register of electors of each electoral district shall
be divided by the qualifying number and each electoral
district shall be entitled to return such number of members
as is equivalent to the whole number resulting from the
division of the total number of such electors in that
electoral district by the qualifying number and the balance
number of such electors, if any, after such division shall
be dealt with, if necessary, in accordance with paragraph
(6) of this Article.
Number of
members to be
returned by
the several
Electoral
Districts and
their
apportionment
among such
Electoral
Districts
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 97
(6) Where the total number of members to be returned
by all the electoral districts ascertained by reference to the
qualifying number in accordance with paragraph (5) of
this Article is less than one hundred and sixty members,
the apportionment of the entitlement among the electoral
districts of the balance number of members shall be by
reference to the balance number of such electors and in
the case of any electoral district not entitled to return a
single member according to the determination made under
paragraph (5), the total number of electors whose names
appear in the register of electors of such electoral district,
the electoral district having the highest of such balance
number of such electors or such total number of such
electors, being entitled to return one more member and so
on until the total number of members to be returned
number one hundred and sixty.
(7) Where in making an apportionment under
paragraph (6) of this Article an equality is found to exist
between two or more balance number of such electors
or two or more total number of such electors or any
combination of them and the addition of one such elector
would entitle one electoral district to return an additional
member, the determination of the electoral district to
which one such elector shall be deemed to be added shall
be determined by lot.
(8) 72[The Commissioner of Elections, as soon as
possible after the certification of the registers of electors
for all the electoral districts, shall by Order published
in the Gazette, certify the number of members which
each electoral district is entitled to return by virtue of the
Proclamation under Article 97 and this Article.]
(9) For the purposes of this Article “the register of
electors” means the register of electors for the time being
in operation on the basis of which an election is being
72 - Substituted by the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 3.
98 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
held.
73[99.(1) At any election of Members of Parliament,
the total number of members which an electoral district
is entitled to return shall be the number specified by the
Commissioner of Elections in the Order published in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (8) of Article 98.
(2) Every elector at an election of Members of
Parliament shall, in addition to his vote, be entitled to
indicate his preferences for not more than three candidates
nominated by the same recognized political party or
Independent group.
(3) Any recognized political party or any group of
persons contesting as independent candidates (hereinafter
referred to as an “independent group”) may for the purpose
of any election of Members of Parliament for any
electoral district, submit one nomination paper setting out
the names of such number of candidates as is equivalent
to the number of members to be elected for that electoral
district, increased by three.
(4) Each elector whose name appears in the
register of electors shall be entitled to only one vote
notwithstanding that his name appears in the electoral
register in more than one electoral district.
(5) The recognized political party or independent
group which polls the highest number of votes in any
electoral district shall be entitled to have the candidate
nominated by it, who has secured the highest number of
preferences, declared elected.
(6) (a) Every recognized political party and
independent group polling 74[less than one twentieth of
the total votes] polled at any election in any electoral district
shall be disqualified from having any candidates of such
Proportional
Representation
73 - Substituted by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 7.
74 - Substituted by the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4(1). 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 99
party or group being elected for that electoral district.
(b) The votes polled by the disqualified parties
and independent groups, if any, shall be deducted from the
total votes polled at the election in that electoral district
and the number of votes resulting from such deduction is
hereinafter referred to as the “relevant numbers of votes”.
(7) The relevant number of votes shall be divided by
the number of members to be elected for that electoral
district reduced by one, if the number resulting from such
division is an integer, that integer, or if that number is an
integer and fraction, the integer immediately higher to that
integer and fraction is hereinafter referred to as the
“resulting number”.
(8) The number of votes polled by each recognized
political party and independent group (other than those
parties or groups disqualified under paragraph (6) of this
Article) beginning with the party or group which polled
the highest number of votes shall then be divided by the
resulting number and the returning officer shall declare
elected from each such party or group, in accordance
with the preferences secured by each of the candidates
nominated by such party or group (the candidate securing
the highest number of preferences being declared elected
first, the candidate securing the next highest number
of preferences being declared elected next and so on)
such number of candidates (excluding the candidate
declared elected under paragraph (5) of this Article) as
is equivalent to the whole number resulting from the
division by the resulting number of the votes polled by
such party or group. The remainder of the votes, if any,
after such division, shall be dealt with if necessary, under
paragraph (9) of this Article.
(9) Where after the declaration of the election
of members as provided in paragraph (8) of this Article
there are one or more members yet to be declared elected,
such member or members shall be declared elected by 
100 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
reference to the remainder of the votes referred to in
paragraph (8) to the credit of each party or group after the
declaration made under that paragraph and the votes
polled by any party or group not having any of its
candidates declared elected under paragraph (8), the
candidate nominated by the party or group having the
highest of such votes, who has secured the highest or next
highest number of preferences being declared elected a
member and so on until all the members to be elected are
declared elected.
(10) (a) Where the number of votes polled by each
recognized political party or independent group is less
than the resulting number referred to in paragraph (7) of
this Article the party or group which has polled the
highest number of votes shall be entitled to have the
candidate, nominated by that party or group (excluding
the candidate declared elected under paragraph (5) of
this Article) who has secured the highest number of
preferences declared elected and if there are one or more
members yet to be declared elected, the party or group
having the next highest number of votes polled shall be
entitled to have the candidate nominated by that party or
group who has secured the highest number of preferences
declared elected and so on, until all the members to be
elected for that electoral district are declared elected under
the provisions of this paragraph.
(b) After the determination under paragraph (a)
if there are one or more members yet to be declared
elected in respect, of that electoral district the provisions
of that paragraph shall mutatis mutandis, apply to the
election of such members.
(11) Where under paragraph (5) or (9) or (10) of
this Article an equality is found to exist between the votes
polled by two or more recognized political parties or two
or more independent groups or any combination of them 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 101
and the addition of a vote would entitle the candidate of
one such party or group to be elected, the determination of
the party or group to which such additional vote shall be
deemed to have been given shall be made by lot.
(12) For the purposes of this Article the number of
votes polled shall deemed to be the number of votes
counted other than rejected votes.
(13) (a) Where a Member of Parliament ceases, by
resignation, expulsion or otherwise, to be a member of a
recognized political party or independent group on whose
nomination paper (hereinafter referred to as the “relevant
nomination paper”) his name appeared at the time of his
becoming such Member of Parliament, his seat shall
become vacant upon the expiration of a period of one
month from the date of his ceasing to be such member:
Provided that in the case of the expulsion of a
Member of Parliament his seat shall not become vacant if
prior to the expiration of the said period of one month he
applies to the Supreme Court by petition in writing, and
the Supreme Court upon such application determines
that such expulsion was invalid. Such petition shall be
inquired into by three Judges of the Supreme Court who
shall make their determination within two months of
the filing of such petition. Where the Supreme Court
determines that the expulsion was valid the vacancy shall
occur from the date of such determination.
(b) Where the seat of a Member of Parliament
becomes vacant as provided in Article 66 (other than
paragraph (g) of that Article) or by virtue of the preceding
provisions of this paragraph the candidate from the
relevant recognized political party or independent group
who has secured the next highest number of preferences
shall be declared elected to fill such vacancy.]
75 - Repealed by the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4(2).
102 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Election of
Members of
Parliament
on the basis
of the total
number of
votes polled
at a General
Election
76 - Inserted by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 8.
75[(14) Repealed]
76[99A. After the one hundred and ninety six
members referred to in Article 98 have been declared
elected at a General Election of Members of Parliament,
the Commissioner of Elections shall forthwith apportion
the balance twenty nine seats among the recognized
political parties and independent groups contesting such
General Election in the same proportion as the proportion
which the number of votes polled by each such party or
group at such General Election bears to the total number
of votes polled at such General Election and for the
purposes of such apportionment, the provisions of
paragraph (4), (5), (6) and (7) of Article 98 shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply.
Every recognized political party or independent
group contesting a General Election shall submit to the
Commissioner of Elections within the nomination period
specified for such election a list of persons qualified to be
elected as Members of Parliament, from which it may
nominate persons to fill the seats, if any, which such
party or group will be entitled to, on such apportionment.
The Commissioner of Elections shall cause every list
submitted to him under this Article to be published
forthwith in the Gazette and in one Sinhala, Tamil
and English newspaper upon the expiry of the nomination
period.
Where a recognized political party or independent
group is entitled to a seat under the apportionment
referred to above, the Commissioner of Elections shall by
a notice, require the secretary of such recognized political
party or group leader of such independent group to
nominate within one week of such notice, persons
qualified to be elected as Members of Parliament (being
persons whose names are included in the list submitted to 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 103
77 - Inserted by the Fifteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 5.
the Commissioner of Elections under this Article or in any
nomination paper submitted in respect of any electoral
district by such party or group at that election) to fill such
seats and shall declare elected as Members of Parliament,
the persons so nominated.
77[The Commissioner of Elections shall before
issuing the aforesaid notice determine whether the number
of members belonging to any community, ethnic or otherwise,
elected to Parliament under Article 98 is commensurate
with the national population ratio and request the Secretary
of such recognized political party or group leader of such
independent group in so nominating persons to be elected
as Members of Parliament to ensure as far as practicable,
that the representation of all communities is commensurate
with its national population ratio.]
For the purposes of this Article the number of votes
polled at a General Election shall be deemed to be the number
of votes actually counted and shall not include any votes
rejected as void.]
100. Any person who –
(a) having been elected a Member of
Parliament but not having been at the
time of such election qualified to be so
elected, shall sit or vote in Parliament; or
(b) shall sit or vote in Parliament after his seat
therein has become vacant or he has become
disqualified from sitting or voting therein;
knowing or having reasonable grounds for knowing
that he was so disqualified or that his seat has become
vacant, as the case may be, shall be liable to a penalty of
five hundred rupees for every day upon which he so sits or
votes to be recovered as a debt due to the Republic by an
action instituted by the Attorney-General in the District
Court of Colombo.
Penalty for
sitting and
voting in
Parliament
when
disqualified
104 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Parliament
may make
provision in
respect of
elections
101. (1) Parliament may by law make provision for –
(a) the registration of electors;
(b) the prescribing of a qualifying date on
which a person should be resident in any
Electoral District to be entered in the
register of electors of that Electoral
District;
(c) the prescribing of a qualifying date on
which a person should have attained the
age of eighteen years to qualify for the
purposes of registration as an elector;
(d) the preparation and revision of registers
of electors;
(e) the procedure for the election of
Members of Parliament;
(f) the creation of offences relating to such
elections and the punishment therefor;
(g) the ground for avoiding such elections,
and where an election has been held void
the manner of holding fresh elections;
(h) the form and manner in which vacancies
shall be filled when all the candidates
whose names appearing in the nomination
paper of a recognized political party or
independent group have been exhausted
78[by election or otherwise or where a
recognized political party or independent
group has been proscribed under Article
157A; and]
(i) the manner of determination of disputed
elections and such other matters as are
78 - Substituted by the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 105
Public officer
or an officer
of a public
corporation
not to
function
during period
of election
79 - Repealed by the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 8.
necessary or incidental to the election of
Members of Parliament:
Provided that no such law shall add to the
disqualifications specified in Articles 89 and 91.
(2) Until Parliament by law makes provision for
such matters the Ceylon (Parliamentary Elections) Order
in Council, 1946 as amended from time to time, shall
subject to the provisions of the Constitution, mutatis
mutandis, apply.
102. When a public officer or an officer of a public
corporation is a candidate at any election, he shall be
deemed to be on leave from the date on which he stands
nominated as a candidate until the conclusion of the
election. Such a public officer or an officer of a public
corporation shall not during such period exercise, perform
or discharge any of the powers, duties or functions of his
office.
79[103. Repealed
 104. Repealed ] 
106 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
80[CHAPTER XIVA
ELECTION COMMISSION
103. 81[(1) There shall be an Election Commission
(in this Chapter referred to as the “Commission”)
consisting of five members appointed by the President
82[on the recommendation of the Constitutional Council,]
from amongst persons who have distinguished themselves
in any profession or in the field of administration or education.
One of the members so appointed shall be a retired officer
of the Department of Elections or Election Commission,
who has held office as a Deputy Commissioner of
Elections or above. The President shall appoint one
member as its Chairman.]
(2) The object of the Commission shall be to conduct
free and fair elections and Referenda.
(3) No person shall be appointed as a member of the
Commission or continue to hold office as such member if
he is or becomes a member of Parliament, a Provincial
Council or a Local Authority, or is or appointed a judicial
officer or public officer, or is or enters into the employment
of the State in any capacity whatsoever.
(4) The provisions of the Constitution and any
other law relating to the removal of judges of the Supreme
Court and the Court of Appeal from office shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply to the removal of a member of the
Commission from office.
(5) A member of the Commission who without
obtaining prior leave of the Commission, absents himself
from three consecutive meetings of the Commission, shall
be deemed to have vacated office with effect from the date
of the third of such meetings.
80 - Chapter XIV A inserted by the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution
Sec. 9.
81 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec.18(1).
82 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec.10(1).
Election
Commission
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 107
(6) A member of the Commission shall hold office
for a period of five years from the date of appointment,
unless he becomes subject to any disqualification under
paragraph (3) of this Article or earlier resigns from office
by writing addressed to the President or is removed from
office under paragraph (4) of this Article, or is convicted
by a court of law of any offence involving moral
turpitude, or if a resolution for the imposition of civic
disability upon him has been passed in terms of Article 81
or is deemed to have vacated office under paragraph (5) of
this Article.
83[(7) The President may grant a member leave from
the performance of his duties relating to the Commission
for a period not exceeding two months and may, 84[on the
recommendation of the Constitutional Council,] appoint a
person qualified to be a member of the Commission to be
a temporary member for the period of such leave.]
(8) A member of the Commission shall be paid
such emoluments as may be determined by Parliament.
The emoluments paid to a member of the Commission
shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund and shall not
be diminished during the term of office of the member.
(9) All members of the Commission shall be deemed
to be public servants within the meaning and for the
purposes of Chapter IX of the Penal Code.
104. (1) The quorum for any meeting of the
Commission shall be three members.
(2) (a) The Chairman of the Commission shall
preside at all meetings of the Commission and in the absence
of the Chairman from any meeting of the Commission, a
member elected by the members present from amongst
themselvesshall preside at such meeting.
Meetings
of the
Commission
83 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 18(2).
84 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 10(2).
108 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(b) Decisions of the Commission shall be by a
majority of the members present and voting at the meeting
at which the decision is taken, and in the event of an
equality of votes, the Chairman or the member presiding
at the meeting shall have a casting vote.
(3) The Commission shall have power to act
notwithstanding any vacancy in the membership of the
Commission, and no act or proceeding or decision of the
Commission shall be invalid or be deemed to be invalid
by reason only of such vacancy or any defect in the
appointment of a member.
104A. Subject to the jurisdiction conferred on the
Supreme Court under paragraph (1) of Article 126, Article
104H and Article 130 and on the Court of Appeal by
Article 144 and the jurisdiction conferred on any court by
any law to hear and determine election petitions or
Referendum petitions -
(a) no court shall have the power or
jurisdiction to entertain or hear or decide
or call in question on any ground and in
any manner whatsoever, any decision,
direction or act of the Commission, made
or done or purported to have been made
or done under the Constitution or under
any law relating to the holding of an
election or the conduct of a Referendum
as the case may be, which decisions,
directions or acts shall be final and
conclusive; and
(b) no suit or prosecution or other proceeding
shall lie against any member or officer of
the Commission for any act or thing
which in good faith is done or purported
to be done by him in the performance of
his duties or the discharge of his functions
under the Constitution or under any law
Finality of
decisions
and immunity
from suit
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 109
relating to the holding of an election or
the conduct of a Referendum as the case
may be.
104B. (1) The Commission shall exercise, perform
and discharge all such powers, duties and functions
conferred or imposed on or assigned to –
(a) the Commission; or
(b) the Commissioner-General of Elections,
by the Constitution, and by the law for the time
being relating to the election of the President, the election
of Members of Parliament, the election of members of
Provincial Councils, the election of members of Local
Authorities and the conduct of Referenda, including but
not limited to all the powers, duties and functions relating
to the preparation and revision of registers of electors for
the purposes of such elections and Referenda and the
conduct of such elections and Referenda.
(2) It shall be the duty of the Commission to secure
the enforcement of all laws relating to the holding of any
such election or the conduct of Referenda and it shall be
the duty of all authorities of the State charged with the
enforcement of such laws, to co-operate with the Commission
to secure such enforcement.
(3) The Commission shall be responsible and
answerable to Parliament in accordance with the provisions
of the Standing Orders of Parliament for the exercise,
performance and discharge of its powers, duties and
functions and shall forward to Parliament for each calendar
year a report of its activities for such year.
85[(4) (a) The Commission shall have the power
during the period of an election, to prohibit the use of any
Powers,
functions and
duties of the
Commission
85 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 23. 
110 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
movable or immovable property belonging to the State or
any public corporation -
(i) for the purpose of promoting or preventing
the 86[election of any candidate or any
political party] or independent group
contesting at such election;
(ii) by any candidate or any political party or
any independent group contesting at such
election,
by a direction in writing by the Chairman of the
Commission or of the Commissioner-General of Elections
on the instructions of the Commission.
(b) It shall be the duty of every person or
officer in whose custody or under whose control such
property is for the time being, to comply with, and give
effect to, such direction.
87[(4a) For the avoidance of doubt it is stated
that any guideline issued by the Commission during the
period commencing on the date of the making of an Order
for the holding of an election or the date of the making of
a Proclamation requiring the conduct of the Referendum,
as the case may be, shall –
(a) be limited to matters which are directly
connected with the holding of the respective election or
the conduct of the respective Referendum, as the case
may be; and
(b) not be connected directly with any matter
relating to the public service or any matter within the
ambit of administration of the Public Service Commission
or the Judicial Service Commission, as the case may be,
appointed under the Constitution.]
86 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 19(1).
87 - Inserted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 19(2).
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 111
(5) 88[(a) The Commission shall have the power
to issue, from time to time, in respect of the holding of
any election or the conduct of a Referendum, such
guidelines as the Commission may consider appropriate,
to any broadcasting or telecasting operator or any
proprietor or any publisher of a newspaper, as the case
may be, as the Commission may consider necessary to
ensure a free and fair election.]
89[(b) It shall be the duty of any broadcasting or
telecasting operator or any proprietor or publisher of a
newspaper, as the case may be, to take all necessary steps
to ensure compliance with any guidelines as are issued to
them under paragraph (a).]
(c) (i) The Commission shall cause the
directions and guidelines referred to
in paragraph 4(a) and paragraph 5(a)
to be published in at least one
newspaper widely circulated, in the
Sinhala, Tamil and English languages.

(ii) Every direction and guideline shall
be published in the Gazette and shall
come into operation on the date of
such publication or on such later date
as may be specified in such direction
and guideline.
(iii) Every such direction and guideline
shall, within three months from the
date of publication in the Gazette, be
brought before Parliament for approval.
Any direction or guideline which is
not so approved shall be deemed to be
rescinded as from the date of such
disapproval, but without prejudice to
anything previously done thereunder.]
88 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 11.
89 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 19(3)
112 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
104C. (1) Upon the making of an Order for the
holding of an election or the making of a Proclamation
requiring the conduct of a Referendum, as the case may
be, the Commission shall notify the Inspector-General of
Police of the facilities and the number of police officers
required by the Commission for the holding or conduct of
such election or Referendum, as the case may be.
(2) The Inspector-General of Police shall make
available to the Commission the facilities and police officers
specified in any notification made under paragraph (1) of
this Article.
(3) The Commission may deploy the police officers
and facilities made available to the Commission in such
manner as is calculated to promote the conduct of a free
and fair election or referendum, as the case may be.
(4) Every police officer made available to the
Commission under paragraph (2) of this Article, shall be
responsible to and act under the direction and control of the
Commission during the period of an election.
(5) No suit, prosecution or other proceeding,
shall lie against any police officer made available to the
Commission under this Article for any lawful act or thing in
good faith done by such police officer, in pursuance of a
direction of the Commission or his functioning under the
Commission.
104D. It shall be lawful for the Commission, upon
the making of an Order for the holding of an election or the
making of a Proclamation requiring the conduct of a
Referendum, as the case may be, to make recommendations
to the President regarding the deployment of the armed
forces of the Republic for the prevention or control of any
actions or incidents which may be prejudicial to the holding
or conducting of a free and fair election or Referendum, as
the case may be.
Deployment
of Police
by the
Commission
Deployment
of Armed
Forces
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 113
104E.
90[(1) There shall be a Commissioner-General
of Elections who shall be appointed by the Commission
on such terms and conditions as shall be determined by
the Commission.]
(2) The Commissioner-General of Elections shall
be entitled to be present at meetings of the Commission,
except where any matter relating to him is being
considered by the Commission. He shall have no right to
vote at such meetings.
(3) The Commission may appoint such other officers
to the Commission on such terms and conditions as may
be determined by the Commission.
(4) The salaries of the Commissioner-General of
Elections and the other officers of the Commission, shall
be determined by the Commission and shall be charged on
the Consolidated Fund.
(5) The Commissioner-General of Elections shall,
subject to the direction and control of the Commission,
implement the decisions of the Commission and exercise
supervision over the officers of the Commission.
(6) The Commission may delegate to the
Commissioner-General of Elections or other officer of
the Commission, any power, duty or function of the
Commission and the Commissioner-General of Elections
or such officer shall exercise, perform and discharge such
power, duty or function, subject to the direction and
control of the Commission.
(7) The office of the Commissioner-General of
Elections shall become vacant -
(a) upon his death;
CommissionerGeneral of
Elections
and other
officers of
the Commission
90 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 20(1).
114 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(b) on his resignation in writing addressed
to the Commission;
(c) on his attaining the age of 91[Sixty] years;
(d) on his removal by the Commission on
account of ill health or physical or mental
infirmity; or
(e) on his removal by the Commission on the
presentation of an address of Parliament
in compliance with the provisions of
paragraph (8), for such removal on the
ground of proved misbehaviour or
incapacity.
(8) (a) The address referred to in sub-paragraph (e)
of paragraph (7) of this Article shall be required to be
supported by a majority of the total number of Members
of Parliament (including those not present) and no
resolution for the presentation of such an address shall be
entertained by the Speaker or placed on the Order Paper
of Parliament, unless notice of such resolution is signed
by not less than one-third of the total number of Members
of Parliament and sets out full particulars of the alleged
misbehaviour or incapacity.
(b) Parliament shall by law or by Standing
Orders, provide for all matters relating to the presentation
of such an address, including the procedure for the passing
of such resolution, the investigation and proof of the
alleged misbehaviour or incapacity and the right of the
Commissioner-General of Elections to appear and to be
heard in person or by representatives.
104F. (1) The Commission shall from time to time
by notice published in the Gazette appoint by name or by
office a person to be a Returning Officer to each electoral
Returning
Officers
91 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 20(2). 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 115
district, and may appoint by name or by office one or more
persons to assist the Returning Officer in the performance
of his duties.
(2) Every Officer appointed under paragraph (1)
shall in the performance and discharge of such duties and
functions as are assigned to him, be subject to such
directions as may be issued by the Commission and shall be
responsible and answerable to the Commission therefor.
104G. All public officers performing duties and
functions at any election or Referenda shall act in the
performance and discharge of such duties and functions
under the directions of the Commission and shall be
responsible and answerable to the Commission therefor.
92[104GG. (1) Any public officer, any employee
of any public corporation, business or other undertaking
vested in the Government under any other written law and
any company registered or deemed to be registered under
the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, in which the Government
or any public corporation or local authority holds fifty per
centum or more of the shares of that company, who -
(a) refuses or fails without a reasonable cause
to co-operate with the Commission, to secure
the enforcement of any law relating to the
holding of an election or the conduct of a
Referendum; or
(b) fails without a reasonable cause to comply
with any directions or guidelines issued by
the Commission under sub-paragraph (a)
of paragraph (4) or sub-paragraph (a) of
paragraph (5), respectively, of Article 104B,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction
be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand
Failure to
comply with
directions to
be an offence
Public
Officers
92 - Inserted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 25.
116 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three
years or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Every High Court established under Article
154P of the Constitution shall have jurisdiction to hear
and determine any matter referred to in paragraph (1).]
104H. (1) The jurisdiction conferred on the Court
of Appeal under Article 140 of the Constitution shall, in
relation to any matter that may arise in the exercise by
the Commission of the powers conferred on it by the
Constitution or by any other law, be exercised by the
Supreme Court.
(2) Every application invoking the jurisdiction
referred to in paragraph (1), shall be made within one
month of the date of the Commission of the act to which
the application relates. The Supreme Court shall hear and
finally dispose of the application within two months of the
filing of the same.
104J. In this Chapter “during the period of an
election” shall mean the period commencing on the
making of a Proclamation or Order for the conduct of a
Referendum or for the holding of an election, as the case
may be, and ending on the date on which the result of poll
taken at such Referendum or election, as the case may be,
is declared.]
Powers of
Supreme
Court to
issue writs
Interpretation
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 117
CHAPTER XV
THE JUDICIARY
105. (1) Subject to the provisions of the
Constitution, the institutions for the administration of
justice which protect, vindicate and enforce the rights
of the People shall be –
(a) the Supreme Court of the Republic of
Sri Lanka,
(b) the Court of Appeal of the Republic of
Sri Lanka,
(c) the High Court of the Republic of Sri
Lanka and such other Courts of First
Instance, tribunals or such institutions as
Parliament may from time to time ordain
and establish.
(2) All courts, tribunals and institutions created
and established by existing written law for the
administration of justice and for the adjudication and
settlement of industrial and other disputes, other than the
Supreme Court, shall be deemed to be courts, tribunals
and institutions created and established by Parliament.
Parliament may replace or abolish, or amend the powers,
duties, jurisdiction and procedure of, such courts,
tribunals and institutions.
(3) The Supreme Court of the Republic of Sri
Lanka and the Court of Appeal of the Republic of Sri
Lanka shall each be a superior court of record and shall
have all the powers of such court including the power to
punish for contempt of itself, whether committed in the
court itself or elsewhere, with imprisonment or fine or
both as the court may deem fit. The power of the Court
of Appeal shall include the power to punish for contempt
of any other court, tribunal or institution referred to in
paragraph (1)(c) of this Article, whether committed in
the presence of such court or elsewhere:
Establishment
of Courts, & c.
118 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Provided that the preceding provisions of this
Article shall not prejudice or affect the rights now or
hereafter vested by any law in such other court, tribunal
or institution to punish for contempt of itself.
(4) Parliament may by law provide for the
creation and establishment of courts, tribunals or
institutions for the adjudication and settlement of matters
relating to the discipline of bhikkus or any dispute
between bhikkus or any other dispute relating to the
performance of services, in, or in relation to, temples.
Such law may, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in this Chapter or Chapter XVI, make provision –
(a) for the appointment, transfer, dismissal
and disciplinary control of the member
or members of such courts, tribunals or
institutions by the President or by such
other person or body of persons as may
be provided for in such law;
(b) for the exclusion of the jurisdiction of
any other institution referred to in
paragraph (1) of this Article in relation
to such matters and disputes.
In this paragraph the expressions “bhikku” and
“temple” shall have the same meanings as in the Buddhist
Temporalities Ordinance, as at the commencement of the
Constitution.
106. (1) The sittings of every court, tribunal or
other institution, established under the Constitution or
ordained and established by Parliament shall subject to
the provisions of the Constitution be held in public, and
all persons shall be entitled freely to attend such sittings.
(2) A judge or presiding officer of any such court,
tribunal or other institution may, in his discretion,
whenever he considers it desirable –
Public sittings
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 119
(a) in proceedings relating to family relations,
(b) in proceedings relating to sexual matters,
(c) in the interests of national security or
public safety, or
(d) in the interests of order and security
within the precincts of such court, tribunal
or other Institution,
exclude there from such persons as are not directly
interested in the proceedings therein.
Independence of the Judiciary
107. 93[(1) The Chief Justice, the President of the
Court of Appeal and every other judge of the Supreme
Court and the Court of Appeal shall be appointed by the
President 94[subject to the approval of the Constitutional
Council,] by warrant under his hand.]
(2) Every such Judge shall hold office during good
behaviour and shall not be removed except by an order of
the President made after an address of Parliament
supported by a majority of the total number of Members of
Parliament (including those not present) has been
presented to the President for such removal on the ground
of proved misbehaviour or incapacity:
Provided that no resolution for the presentation
of such an address shall be entertained by the Speaker or
placed on the Order Paper of Parliament, unless notice of
such resolution is signed by not less than one-third of the
total number of Members of Parliament and sets out full
particulars of the alleged misbehaviour or incapacity.
(3) Parliament shall by law or by Standing Orders
provide for all matters relating to the presentation of
Appointment
and removal
of Judges of
the Supreme
Court and
Court of
Appeal
93 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 21.
94 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 12.
120 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
such an address, including the procedure for the passing of
such resolution, the investigation and proof of the alleged
misbehaviour or incapacity and the right of such Judge to
appear and to be heard in person or by representative.
(4) Every person appointed to be or to act as Chief
Justice, President of the Court of Appeal or a Judge of the
Supreme Court or Court of Appeal shall not enter upon
the duties of his office until he takes and subscribes or
makes and subscribes before the President, the oath or the
affirmation set out in the Fourth Schedule.
(5) The age of retirement of Judges of the Supreme
Court shall be Sixty-five years and of Judges of the Court
of Appeal shall be Sixty-three years.
108. (1) The salaries of the Judges of the Supreme
Court and of the Court of Appeal shall be determined by
Parliament and shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.
(2) The salary payable to, and the pension entitlement
of a Judge of the Supreme Court and a Judge of the Court
of Appeal shall not be reduced after his appointment.
109. (1) If the Chief Justice or the President of the
Court of Appeal is temporarily unable to exercise, perform
and discharge the powers, duties and functions of his
office, by reason of illness, absence from Sri Lanka or any
other cause the President shall, 96[on the approval of the
Constitutional Council,] appoint another Judge of the
Supreme Court, or of the Court of Appeal, as the case may
be, to act in the office of Chief Justice, or the President of
the Court of Appeal, respectively, during such period.
(2) If any Judge of the Supreme Court or of the
Court of Appeal is temporarily unable to exercise, perform
and discharge the powers, duties and functions of his
office, by reason of illness, absence from Sri Lanka or
Salaries of
the Judges of
the Supreme
Court and
Court of
Appeal
95[Acting
appointments
95 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 22.
96 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 13(1).
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 121
any other cause, the President may, 97[on the approval of
the Constitutional Council,] appoint another Judge to act as
a Judge of the Supreme Court or Court of Appeal, as the
case may be, during such period.]
110. (1) A Judge of the Supreme Court or Court of
Appeal may be required by the President of the Republic to
perform or discharge any other appropriate duties or
functions under any written law.
(2) No Judge of the Supreme Court or Court of
Appeal shall perform any other office (whether paid or not)
or accept any place of profit or emolument, except as
authorized by the Constitution or by written law or with the
written consent of the President.
(3) No person who has held office as a permanent
Judge of the Supreme Court or of the Court of Appeal may
appear, plead, act or practise in any court, tribunal or
institution as an Attorney-at-law at any time without the
written consent of the President.
111. 98[(1) There shall be a High Court of Sri Lanka,
which shall exercise such jurisdiction and powers as
Parliament may by law vest or ordain.]
99[(2) The Judges of the High Court shall -
(a) on the recommendation of the Judicial
Service Commission, be appointed by the
President by warrant under his hand and
such recommendation shall be made after
consultation with the Attorney-General;
(b) be removable and be subject to the
disciplinary control of the president on the
recommendation of the Judicial Service
Commission.]
Performance
or discharge
of other
duties or
functions by
Judges
Appointment,
removal and
disciplinary
control of
Judges of the
High Court
97 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 13(2).
98 - Substituted by the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2.
99 - Substituted by the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 12(1)
122 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(3) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (2) of this
Article, Parliament may by law provide for matters relating
to the retirement of the Judge of such High Court.
100[(4) Any Judge of the High Court may resign his
office by writing under his hand addressed to the President.]
101[111A. (1) Where the Minister in charge of the
subject of Justice represents to the President that it is
expedient that the number of the Judges exercising the
jurisdiction and powers of the High Court in any judicial
zone should be temporarily increased, 102[the President
may, on the recommendation of the Judicial Service
Commission, by warrant, appoint], one or more
Commissioners of the High Court to exercise the
jurisdiction and powers of the High Court within such
judicial zone as is specified in the warrant of
appointment of such Commissioner of the High Court.
(2) Every Commissioner of the High Court
appointed under paragraph (1) shall hold office for the
period specified in his warrant of appointment and shall be
removable, and be subject to disciplinary control, by the
President, on the recommendation of the Judicial Service
Commission.
(3) Every Commissioner of the High Court
appointed under paragraph (1) may, during his tenure of
office, exercise, according to law, such jurisdiction and powers
as is, or are, vested or ordained in the High Court by
Parliament and shall be invested with all the rights, powers,
privileges and immunities (except such rights and privileges
as relate to tenure of office) of a Judge of the High Court,
and for this purpose, a reference to a “Judge of the High
Court” in the Constitution or other written law shall, unless
the context otherwise requires, be deemed to include a
reference to a “Commissioner of the High Court”.]
Commissioners
of the High
Court
100 - Inserted by the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 12(2).
101 - Inserted by the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4.
102 - Substituted by the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 13. 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 123
103[111B. There shall be a Fiscal, who shall be the
Fiscal for the whole Island and who shall exercise
supervision and control over Deputy Fiscals attached to
all Courts of First Instance.]
104[111C.] (1) Every judge, presiding officer,
public officer or other person entrusted by law with
judicial powers or functions or with functions under
this Chapter or with similar functions under any law
enacted by Parliament shall exercise and perform such
powers and functions without being subject to any
direction or other interference proceeding from any
other person except a superior court, tribunal, institution
or other person entitled under law to direct or supervise
such judge, presiding officer, public officer or such
other person in the exercise or performance of such
powers or functions.
(2) Every person who, without legal authority,
interferes or attempts to interfere with the exercise or
performance of the judicial powers or functions of any
judge, presiding officer, public officer or such other
person as is referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article,
shall be guilty of an offence punishable by the High
Court on conviction after trial without a jury with
imprisonment of either description for a term which
may extend to a period of one year or with fine or with
both such imprisonment and fine and may, in addition,
be disqualified for a period not exceeding seven years
from the date of such conviction from being an elector
and from voting at a Referendum or at any election of
the President of the Republic or at any election of a
Member of Parliament or any local authority or from
holding any public office and from being employed as
a public officer.

Fiscal for the
whole Island
Interference
with
judiciary an
offence
103 - Inserted by the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 14.
104 - Article 116 renumbered as article 111C by the Seventeenth Amendment
to the Constitution Sec. 15.
124 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

105[CHAPTER XV A
JUDICIAL SERVICE COMMISSION
111D. (1) There shall be a Judicial Service
Commission (in this Chapter referred to as the
“Commission”) consisting of the Chief Justice and the two
most senior Judges of the Supreme Court appointed by the
President 107[subject to the approval of the Constitutional
Council.]
(2) Where the Chief Justice and the two most senior
Judges of the Supreme Court are Judges who have not had
any judicial experience serving as 108[a Magistrate or a
District Judge], the Commission shall consist of the Chief
Justice, the senior most Judge of the Supreme Court and
the next most senior Judge of such Court, who has had
experience as 109[a Magistrate or a District Judge].
(3) The Chief Justice shall be the Chairman of
the Commission.]
111E. (1) The quorum for any meeting of the
Commission shall be two members of the Commission.
(2) A Judge of the Supreme Court appointed as a
member of the Commission shall, unless he earlier resigns
his office or is removed there from as hereinafter provided
or ceases to be a Judge of the Supreme Court, hold office
for a period of three years from the date of his
appointment, but shall be eligible for re-appointment.
(3) All decisions of the Commission shall be made
by a majority of the members present, and in the event of
105 - Chapter XV A, inserted by the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution
Sec. 16.
106 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 28.
107 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 14(1).
108 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 14(2).
109 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 14(2).
106[Constitution
of the Judicial
Service
Commission
Meetings
of the
Commission
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 125
an equality of votes, the Chairman of the meeting shall
have a casting vote.
(4) The Commission shall have power to act
notwithstanding any vacancy in its membership and no act
or proceeding of the Commission shall be, or be deemed to
be invalid by reason only of such vacancy or any defect in
the appointment of a member.
110[(5) The President may grant to any member of
the Commission leave from his duties and may 111[subject
to the approval of the Constitutional Council,] appoint a
person qualified to be a member of the Commission to be a
temporary member for the period of such leave.
(6) The President may, for cause assigned, remove
from office any member of the Commission.]
111F. A member of the Commission shall be paid
such allowances as may be determined by Parliament. Such
allowances shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund and
shall not be reduced during the period of office of a
member and shall be in addition to the salary and other
allowances attached to and received from, the substantive
appointment:
Provided that until the amount to be paid as
allowances is determined under the provisions of this
Article, the members of the Commission shall continue to
receive as allowances, such amount as they were receiving
on the day immediately preceding the date on which this
Chapter comes into operation.
111G. There shall be a Secretary to the Commission
who shall be appointed by the Commission from among
senior judicial officers of the Courts of First Instance.
110 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 24.
111 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 15.
Allowances
of members
of the
Commission
Secretary
to the
Commission
126 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Powers of the
Commission
111H. (1) The Judicial Service Commission is
hereby vested with the Power to -
(a) transfer judges of the High Court;

(b) appoint, promote, transfer, exercise
disciplinary control and dismiss judicial
officers and scheduled public officers.
(2) The Commission may make -
(a) rules regarding training of Judges of the
High Court, the schemes for recruitment
and training, appointment, promotion and
transfer of judicial officers and
scheduled public officers;
(b) provision for such matters as are
necessary or expedient for the exercise,
performance and discharge of the
powers, duties and functions of the
Commission.
(3) The Chairman of the Commission or any Judge
of the Supreme Court or Judge of the Court of Appeal as
the case may be, authorized by the Commission shall have
power and authority to inspect any Court of First Instance,
or the records, registers and other documents maintained
in such Court, or hold such inquiry as may be necessary.
(4) The Commission may by Order published in
the Gazette delegate to the Secretary to the Commission
the power to make transfers in respect of scheduled
public officers, other than transfers involving increase
of salary, or to make acting appointments in such cases
and subject to such limitations as may be specified in
the Order.
111J. Any judicial officer or scheduled public
officer may resign his office by writing under his hand
addressed to the Chairman of the Commission.
Judicial officers
and scheduled
public officers
may resign
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 127
111K. No suit or proceeding shall lie against
the Chairman, Member or Secretary or Officer of the
Commission for any lawful act which in good faith is
done in the performance of his duties or functions as
such Chairman, Member, Secretary or Officer of the
Commission.
111L. (1) Every person who otherwise than in the
course of such persons lawful duty, directly or indirectly,
alone or by or with any other person, in any manner
whatsoever, influences or attempts to influence any decision or
order made by the Commission or to so influence any
member thereof, shall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred
thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding three years or to both such fine and imprisonment:
Provided however that the giving of a certificate
or testimonial to any applicant or candidate for any
judicial office or scheduled public office shall not be an
offence.
(2) Every High Court established under Article 154P
of the Constitution shall have jurisdiction to hear and
determine any matter referred to in paragraph (1).
111M. (a) In this Chapter –
“Appointment” includes the appointment to act in
any office referred to in this Chapter.
“Judicial officer” means any person who holds office
as judge, presiding officer or member of any Court of First
Instance, tribunal or institution created and established
for the administration of Justice or for the adjudication of
any labour or other dispute, but does not include a Judge
of the Supreme Court or of the 112[Court of Appeal] or a
112 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 16.
Interference
with the
Commission
an offence
Interpretation
Immunity
from legal
proceedings
128 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
person who performs arbitral functions or a public
officer whose principal duty is not the performance of
functions of a judicial nature; and
“Scheduled public officer” means the Registrar of
the Supreme Court, the Registrar of the Court of Appeal,
the Registrar, Deputy Registrar or Assistant Registrar of
the High Court or any Court of First Instance, the Fiscal,
the Deputy Fiscal of the Court of Appeal or High Court
and any Court of First Instance, any public officer
employed in the Registry of the Supreme Court, Court of
Appeal or High Court or any Court of First Instance
included in a category specified in the Fifth Schedule or
such other categories as may be specified by Order made
by the Minister in charge of the subject of Justice and
approved by Parliament and published in the Gazette.
(b) No court, tribunal or institution shall
have jurisdiction to entertain or to determine the question
whether or not a person is a judicial officer within the
meaning of the Constitution, but such question shall be
determined solely by the Commission, whose decision
thereon shall be final and conclusive.
(c) No act of such person or proceeding held before
such person, prior to such determination as is referred to
in sub-paragraph (b), shall be deemed to be invalid by
reason of such determination.]
113[112. Repealed
113. Repealed
113 A. Repealed
114. Repealed
113 - Articles 112, 113, 113A, 114 and 115 repealed by the Seventeenth Amendment
to the Constitution Sec. 17.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 129
115. Repealed]
114[116. Renumbered as Article 111C]
115[117. Repealed]114. Repealed
114 - Renumbered as Article 111C by the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution
Sec. 15.
115 - Article 117 repealed by the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 17.
130 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
CHAPTER XVI
THE SUPERIOR COURTS
The Supreme Court
118. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Sri
Lanka shall be the highest and final superior Court of
record in the Republic and shall subject to the provisions
of the Constitution exercise –
(a) jurisdiction in respect of constitutional
matters;
(b) Jurisdiction for the protection of fundamental
rights;
(c) final appellate jurisdiction;
(d) consultative jurisdiction;
(e) jurisdiction in election petitions;
(f) jurisdiction in respect of any breach of the
privileges of Parliament; and
(g) jurisdiction in respect of such other matters
which Parliament may by law vest or
ordain.
119. (1) The Supreme Court shall consist of the
Chief Justice and of not less than six and not more than
116[sixteen] other Judges who shall be appointed as
provided in Article 107.
(2) The Supreme Court shall have power to act
notwithstanding any vacancy in its membership and no
act or proceeding of the Court shall be, or shall be deemed
to be, invalid by reason only of any such vacancy or any
defect in the appointment of a Judge.
Constitution
of Supreme
Court
General
jurisdiction
of Supreme
Court
116 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 25. 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 131
Constitutional
Jurisdiction of
the Supreme
Court
120. The Supreme Court shall have sole and
exclusive jurisdiction to determine any question as to
whether any Bill or any provision thereof is inconsistent
with the Constitution:
Provided that –
(a) in the case of a Bill described in its long title
as being for the amendment of any provision
of the Constitution, or for the repeal and
replacement of the Constitution, the only
question which the Supreme Court may
determine is whether such Bill requires
approval by the People at a Referendum by
virtue of the provisions of Article 83;
(b) where the Cabinet of Ministers certifies that
a Bill, which is described in its long title as
being for the amendment of any provisions
of the Constitution; or for the repeal and
replacement of the Constitution, intended to
be passed with the special majority required
by Article 83 and submitted to the People by
Referendum, the Supreme Court shall have
and exercise no jurisdiction in respect of
such Bill;
(c) where the Cabinet of Ministers certifies that
a Bill which is not described in its long title
as being for the amendment of any provision
of the Constitution, or for the repeal and
replacement of the Constitution, is intended
to be passed with the special majority
required by Article 84, the only question
which the Supreme Court may determine is
whether such Bill requires approval by the
People at a Referendum by virtue of the
provisions of Article 83 or whether such Bill
is required to comply with paragraphs (1)
and (2) of Article 82; or
132 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(d) where the Cabinet of Ministers certifies
that any provision of any Bill which is not
described in its long title as being for
the amendment of any provision of the
Constitution or for the repeal and
replacement of the Constitution is intended
to be passed with the special majority
required by Article 84, the only question
which the Supreme Court may determine is
whether any other provision of such Bill
requires to be passed with the special
majority required by Article 84 or whether
any provision of such Bill requires the
approval by the People at a Referendum by
virtue of the provisions of Article 83 or
whether such Bill is required to comply
with the provisions of paragraphs (1) and
(2) of Article 82.
121. (1) The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court to
ordinarily determine any such question as aforesaid may
be invoked by the President by a written reference
addressed to the Chief Justice, or by any citizen by a
petition in writing addressed to the Supreme Court. Such
reference shall be made, or such petition shall be filed,
117[within fourteen days] of the Bill being placed on the
Order Paper of the Parliament and a copy thereof shall at
the same time be delivered to the Speaker. In this
paragraph “citizen” includes a body, whether incorporated
or unincorporated, if not less than three-fourths of the
members of such body are citizens.
 (2) Where the jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court has been so invoked no proceedings shall be had in
Parliament in relation to such Bill until the determination
of the Supreme Court has been made, or the expiration of
Ordinary
Exercise of
constitutional
jurisdiction in
respect of Bills
117 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 17. 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 133
a period of three weeks from the date of such reference or
petition, whichever occurs first.
(3) The Supreme Court shall make and communicate
its determination to the President and to the Speaker
within three weeks of the making of the reference or the
filing of the petition, as the case may be.
118[122. (1) In the case of a Bill which is, in view of
the Cabinet of Ministers, urgent in the interest of national
security or for the purpose of any matter relating to
disaster management, and bears an endorsement to that
effect under the hand of the Secretary to the Cabinet -
(a) the provisions of paragraph (1) of Article
78 and of Article 121, shall, subject to the
provisions of paragraph (2) of this Article,
have no application;
(b) the President shall, by a written reference
addressed to the Chief Justice, require the
special determination of the Supreme
Court as to whether the Bill or any
provision thereof is inconsistent with the
Constitution. A copy of such reference
shall at the same time be delivered to the
Speaker;
(c) the Supreme Court shall make its
determination within twenty-four hours
(or such longer period not exceeding three
days as the President may specify) of the
assembling of the Court and shall
communicate its determination only to the
President and the Speaker.
(2) The provisions of paragraph (2) of Article 121
shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to such Bill.
Special
exercise of
constitutional
jurisdiction
in respect of
urgent Bills
118 - Inserted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 26.
134 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(3) The provisions of this Article shall not apply to
any Bill for the amendment, repeal and replacement,
alteration or addition of any provision of the Constitution
or for the repeal and replacement of the Constitution.]
123. (1) The determination of the Supreme Court
shall be accompanied by the reasons there for and shall
state whether the Bill or any provision thereof is
inconsistent with the Constitution and if so, which
provision or provisions of the Constitution.
(2) Where the Supreme Court determines that the
Bill or any provision thereof is inconsistent with the
Constitution, it shall also state -
(a) whether such Bill is required to comply
with the provisions of paragraphs (1) and
(2) of Article 82; or
(b) whether such Bill or any provision thereof
may only be passed by the special
majority required under the provisions of
paragraph (2) of Article 84; or
(c) whether such Bill or any provision thereof
requires to be passed by the special
majority required under the provisions of
paragraph (2) of Article 84 and approved
by the People at a Referendum by virtue of
the provisions of Article 83, and may
specify the nature of the amendments
which would make the Bill or such
provision cease to be inconsistent.
119[(3) In the case of a Bill endorsed as provided in
Article 122, if the Supreme Court entertains a doubt
whether the Bill or any provision thereof is inconsistent
with the Constitution, it shall be deemed to have been
Determination
of Supreme
Court in
respect of
Bills
119 - Inserted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 27.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 135
determined that the Bill or such provision of the Bill is
inconsistent with the Constitution, and the Supreme Court
shall comply with the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2)
of this Article.]
(4) Where any Bill, or the provision of any Bill, has
been determined or is deemed to have been determined, to
be inconsistent with the Constitution, such Bill or such
provision shall not be passed except in the manner stated
in the determination of the Supreme Court:
Provided that it shall be lawful for such Bill to
be passed after such amendment as would make the Bill
cease to be inconsistent with the Constitution.
124. Save as otherwise 120[provided in Articles 120,
121 and 122], no court or tribunal created and established
for the administration of justice or other institution, person
or body of persons shall in relation to any Bill, have
power or jurisdiction to inquire into, or pronounce upon,
the constitutionality of such Bill or its due compliance
with the legislative process, on any ground whatsoever.
125. (1) The Supreme Court shall have sole and
exclusive jurisdiction to hear and determine any question
relating to the interpretation of the Constitution and
accordingly, whenever any such question arises in the
course of any proceedings in any other court or tribunal or
other institution empowered by law to administer justice
or to exercise judicial or quasi-judicial functions, such
question shall forthwith be referred to the Supreme Court
for determination. The Supreme Court may direct that
further proceedings be stayed pending the determination
of such question.
(2) The Supreme Court shall determine such
question within two months of the date of reference and
make any such consequential order as the circumstances
of the case may require.
120 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 28.
Validity of
Bills and
legislative
process not to
be questioned
Constitutional
jurisdiction
in the
interpretation
of the
Constitution
136 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
126. (1) The Supreme Court shall have sole and
exclusive jurisdiction to hear and determine any question
relating to the infringement or imminent infringement by
executive or administrative action of any fundamental
right or language right declared and recognized by Chapter
III or Chapter IV.
(2) Where any person alleges that any such
fundamental right or language right relating to such person
has been infringed or is about to be infringed by executive
or administrative action, he may himself or by an
Attorney-at-Law on his behalf, within one month thereof,
in accordance with such rules of court as may be in force,
apply to the Supreme Court by way of petition in writing
addressed to such Court praying for relief or redress in
respect of such infringement. Such application may be
proceeded with only with leave to proceed first had and
obtained from the Supreme Court, which leave may be
granted or refused, as the case may be, by not less than
two judges.
(3) Where in the course of hearing in the Court of
Appeal into an application for orders in the nature of a writ
of habeas corpus, certiorari, prohibition, procedendo,
mandamus or quo warranto, it appears to such Court that
there is prima facie evidence of an infringement or
imminent infringement of the provisions of Chapter III or
Chapter IV by a party to such application, such Court shall
forthwith refer such matter for determination by the
Supreme Court.
(4) The Supreme Court shall have power to grant
such relief or make such directions as it may deem just and
equitable in the circumstance in respect of any petition or
reference referred to in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this
Article or refer the matter back to the Court of Appeal if in
its opinion there is no infringement of a fundamental right
or language right.
Fundamental
rights
jurisdiction
and its
exercise
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 137
(5) The Supreme Court shall hear and finally dispose
of any petition or reference under this Article within two
months of the filing of such petition or the making of such
reference.
127. (1) The Supreme Court shall, subject to the
Constitution, be the final Court of civil and criminal
appellate jurisdiction for and within the Republic of Sri
Lanka for the correction of all errors in fact or in law
which shall be committed by the Court of Appeal or any
Court of First Instance, tribunal or other institution and
the judgments and orders of the Supreme Court shall in all
cases be final and conclusive in all such matters.
(2) The Supreme Court shall, in the exercise of its
jurisdiction, have sole and exclusive cognizance by way
of appeal from any order, judgement, decree, or sentence
made by the Court of Appeal, where any appeal lies in
law to the Supreme Court and it may affirm, reverse or
vary any such order, judgement, decree or sentence of the
Court of Appeal and may issue such directions to any
Court of First Instance or order a new trial or further
hearing in any proceedings as the justice of the case may
require and may also call for and admit fresh or additional
evidence if the interests of justice so demands and may in
such event, direct that such evidence be recorded by the
Court of Appeal or any Court of First Instance.
l28. (1) An appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court
from any final order, judgement, decree or sentence of the
Court of Appeal in any matter or proceedings, whether
civil or criminal, which involves a substantial question of
law, if the Court of Appeal grants leave to appeal to the
Supreme Court ex mero motu or at the instance of any
aggrieved party to such matter or proceedings.
(2) The Supreme Court may, in its discretion, grant
special leave to appeal to the Supreme Court from
any final or interlocutory order, judgement, decree, or
Appellate
jurisdiction
Right of
appeal
138 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
sentence made by the Court of Appeal in any matter or
proceedings, whether civil or criminal, where the Court of
Appeal has refused to grant leave to appeal to the
Supreme Court or where in the opinion of the Supreme
Court, the case or matter is fit for review by the Supreme
Court:
Provided that the Supreme Court shall grant
leave to appeal in every matter or proceedings in which it
is satisfied that the question to be decided is of public or
general importance.
(3) Any appeal from an order or judgement of the
Court of Appeal, made or given in the exercise of its
jurisdiction under Article 139, 140, 141, 142 or 143 to
which the President, a Minister, a Deputy Minister or a
public officer in his official capacity is a party, shall be
heard and determined within two months of the date of
filing thereof.
(4) An appeal shall lie directly to the Supreme Court
on any matter and in the manner specifically provided for
by any other law passed by Parliament.
121[(5) Any application for leave to appeal or special
leave to appeal made to the Supreme Court under this
Article may be granted or refused, as the case may be, by
not less than two Judges of the Supreme Court.]
129. (1) If at any time it appears to the President of
the Republic that a question of law or fact has arisen or is
likely to arise which is of such nature and of such public
importance that it is expedient to obtain the opinion of the
Supreme Court upon it, he may refer that question to that
Court for consideration and the Court may, after such
hearing as it thinks fit, within the period specified in such
reference or within such time as may be extended by the
President, report to the President its opinion thereon.
121 - Inserted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 29.
Consultative
jurisdiction
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 139
(2) Where the Speaker refers to the Supreme Court
for inquiry and report all or any of the allegation or
allegations, as the case may be, contained in any such
resolution as is referred to in Article 38(2)(a), the
Supreme Court shall in accordance with Article 38(2)(d)
inquire into such allegation or allegations and shall report
its determination to the Speaker within two months of the
date of reference.
(3) Such opinion, determination and report shall be
expressed after consideration by at least five Judges of the
Supreme Court, of whom, unless he otherwise directs, the
Chief Justice shall be one.
(4) Every proceeding under paragraph (1) of this
Article shall be held in private unless the Court for special
reasons otherwise directs.
130. The Supreme Court shall have the power to
hear and determine and make such orders as provided for
by law on –
(a) any legal proceeding relating to 123[election of
the President or the validity of a referendum];
(b) any appeal from an order or judgment of the
Court of Appeal in an election petition case:
Provided that the hearing and determination of a
proceeding relating to the 124[election of the President or
the validity of a referendum shall be] by at least five
Judges of the Supreme Court of whom, unless he
otherwise directs, the Chief Justice shall be one.
131. The Supreme Court shall have according to law
the power to take cognizance of and punish any person for
the breach of the privileges of Parliament.
Jurisdiction
in 122 [election
and
referendum
petitions]
Jurisdiction
in respect of
breaches of
Parliamentary
privileges
122 - Marginal note substituted by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution
Sec 9(3).
123 - Substituted by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 9(1).
124 - Substituted by the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 9(2).
140 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
132. (1) The several jurisdictions of the Supreme
Court shall be ordinarily exercised at Colombo unless the
Chief Justice otherwise directs.
(2) The jurisdiction of the Supreme Court may be
exercised in different matters at the same time by the
several Judges of that Court sitting apart:
Provided that its jurisdiction shall, subject to the
provisions of the Constitution, be ordinarily exercised
at all times by not less than three Judges of the Court
sitting together as the Supreme Court.
(3) The Chief Justice may –
(i) of his own motion; or
(ii) at the request of two or more Judges
hearing any matter; or
(iii) on the application of a party to any appeal,
proceeding or matter if the question
involved is in the opinion of the Chief
Justice one of general and public
importance, direct that such appeal,
proceeding or matter be heard by a Bench
comprising five or more Judges of the
Supreme Court.
(4) The judgement of the Supreme Court shall,
when it is not an unanimous decision, be the decision of
the majority.
133. (1) If at any time there should not be a quorum
of the Judges of the Supreme Court available to hold or
continue any sittings of the Court, the Chief Justice may
with the previous consent of the President request in
writing the attendance at the sittings of the Court as an ad
hoc Judge, for such period as may be necessary, of the
President of the Court of Appeal or any Judge of the
Court of Appeal.
Sittings of
the Supreme
Court
Appointment
of ad hoc
Judges
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 141
(2) It shall be the duty of such a Judge who had
been so requested, in priority to other duties of his office,
to attend the sittings of the Supreme Court at the time
and for the period for which his attendance is required
and while so attending he shall have all the jurisdictions,
powers and privileges and shall perform the duties of a
Judge of the Supreme Court.
134. (1) The Attorney-General shall be noticed and
have the right to be heard in all proceedings in the
Supreme Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction under
Articles 120, 125[121,122, 125], 126, 129(1) and 131.
(2) Any party to any proceedings in the Supreme
Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction shall have the
right to be heard in such proceedings either in person or
by representation by an Attorney-at-Law.
(3) The Supreme Court may in its discretion grant
to any other person or his legal representative such
hearing as may appear to the Court to be necessary in the
exercise of its jurisdiction under this Chapter.
135. The Registry of the Supreme Court shall be in
charge of an officer designated the Registrar of the
Supreme Court who shall be subject to the supervision,
direction and control of the Chief Justice.
136. (1) Subject to the provisions of the
Constitution and of any law the Chief Justice with any
three Judges of the Supreme Court nominated by him,
may, from time to time, make rules regulating generally
the practice and procedure of the Court including -
(a) rules as to the procedure for hearing appeals
and other matters pertaining to appeals
including the terms under which appeals to
the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeal
Registry of
the Supreme
Court and
office of
Registrar
Rules of the
Supreme
Court
Right to be
heard by the
Supreme
Court
125 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 30.
142 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
are to be entertained and provision for the
dismissal of such appeals for non-compliance
with such rules;
(b) rules as to the proceedings in the Supreme
Court and Court of Appeal in the exercise
of the several jurisdictions conferred on
such Courts by the Constitution or by any
law, including the time within which such
matters may be instituted or brought before
such Courts and the dismissal of such
matters for non-compliance with such rules;
(c) rules as to the granting of bail;
(d) rules as to the stay of proceedings;
(e) rules providing for the summary
determination of any appeal or any other
matter before such Court by petition or
otherwise, which appears to the Court to be
frivolous and vexatious or brought for the
purpose of delay;
(f) the preparation of copies of records for the
purpose of appeal or other proceedings in
the Supreme Court and Court of Appeal;
(g) the admission, enrolment, suspension and
removal of Attorneys-at-Law 126[ .... ] and
the rules of conduct and etiquette for such
Attorneys-at-Law;
(h) the attire of Judges, Attorneys-at-Law,
officers of Court and persons attending the
Courts in Sri Lanka whether established by
the Constitution, or by Parliament or by
existing law;
126 - Omitted by the Eighth Amendment to the Constitution Sec.3.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 143
(i) the manner in which panels of jurors may
be prepared and the mode of summoning,
empanelling and challenging of jurors;
(j) proceedings of Fiscals and other ministerial
officers of such courts and the process of such
courts and the mode of executing the same;
(k) the binding effect of the decisions of the
Supreme Court;
(l) all matters of practice and procedure including
the nature and extent of costs that may be
awarded, the manner in which such costs may
be taxed and the stamping of documents in the
Supreme Court, Court of Appeal, High Court
and Courts of First Instance not specially
provided by or under any law.
(2) Every rule made under this Article shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in such rule.
(3) All rules made under this Article shall as soon as
convenient after their publication in the Gazette be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any such rule which is not
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date it was not so approved, but without prejudice to
anything previously done thereunder.
(4) The Chief Justice and any three Judges of the
Supreme Court nominated by him may amend, alter or
revoke any such rules of court and such amendment,
alteration or revocation of the rules will operate in the like
manner as set out in the preceding paragraph with reference
to the making of the rules of court.
144 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
 The Court of Appeal
137. The Court of Appeal shall consist of the
President of the Court of Appeal and not less than six
and not more than 127[nineteen] other Judges who shall
be appointed as provided in Article 107.
138. (1) The Court of Appeal shall have and
exercise subject to the provisions of the Constitution or
of any law, an appellate jurisdiction for the correction of
all errors in fact or in law which shall be 128[committed
by the High Court, in the exercise of its appellate or
original jurisdiction or by any Court of First Instance],
tribunal or other institution and sole and exclusive
cognizance, by way of appeal, revision and restitutio in
integrum, of all causes, suits, actions, prosecutions,
matters and things 129[of which such High Court, Court
of First Instance], tribunal or other institution may have
taken cognizance:
Provided that no judgement, decree or order of
any court shall be reversed or varied on account of any
error, defect or irregularity, which has not prejudiced the
substantial rights of the parties or occasioned a failure of
justice.
(2) The Court of Appeal shall also have and
exercise all such powers and jurisdiction, appellate and
original, as Parliament may by law vest or ordain.
139. (1) The Court of Appeal may in the exercise
of its jurisdiction, affirm, reverse, correct or modify any
order, judgment, decree or sentence according to law or
it may give directions to such Court of First Instance,
tribunal or other institution or order a new trial or further
hearing upon such terms as the Court of Appeal shall
think fit.
127 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 31.
128 - Substituted by the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 3(a).
129 - Substituted by the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 3(b).
Powers in
appeal
Jurisdiction
of the Court
of Appeal
The Court of
Appeal
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 145
(2) The Court of Appeal may further receive and
admit new evidence additional to, or supplementary of, the
evidence already taken in the Court of First Instance
touching the matters at issue in any original case, suit,
prosecution or action, as the justice of the case may
require.
140. Subject to the provisions of the Constitution, the
Court of Appeal shall have full power and authority to
inspect and examine the records of any Court of First
Instance or tribunal or other institution and grant and
issue, according to law, orders in the nature of writs of
certiorari, prohibition, procedendo, mandamus and quo
warranto against the judge of any Court of First Instance
or tribunal or other institution or any other person:
130[Provided that Parliament may by law provide
that in any such category of cases as may be specified in
such law, the jurisdiction conferred on the Court of Appeal
by the preceding provisions of this Article shall be
exercised by the Supreme Court and not by the Court of
Appeal.]
141. The Court of Appeal may grant and issue orders
in the nature of writs of habeas corpus to bring up before
such Court –
(a) the body of any person to be dealt with
according to law; or
(b) the body of any person illegally or
improperly detained in public or private
custody,
and to discharge or remand and person so brought up
or otherwise deal with such person according to law:
Provided that it shall be lawful for the Court of
Appeal to require the body of such person to be brought
up before the most convenient Court of First Instance and
130 - Inserted by the First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2.
Power to issue
writs, other
than writs of
habeas corpus
Power to
issue writs of
habeas corpus
146 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
to direct the judge of such court to inquire into and report
upon the acts of the alleged imprisonment or detention
and to make such provision for the interim custody of the
body produced as to such court shall seem right; and the
Court of Appeal shall upon the receipt of such report,
make order to discharge or remand the person so alleged
to be imprisoned or detained or otherwise deal with such
person according to law and the Court of First Instance
shall conform to and carry into immediate effect, the order
so pronounced or made by the Court of Appeal:
Provided further that if provision be made by
law for the exercise by any court, of jurisdiction in respect
of the custody and control of minor children, then the
Court of Appeal, if satisfied that any dispute regarding the
custody of any such minor child may more properly
be dealt with by such court, direct the parties to make
application in that court in respect of the custody of such
minor child.
142. The Court of Appeal may direct –
(i) that a prisoner detained in any prison
be brought before a court-martial or any
Commissioners acting under the authority
of any Commission from the President
of the Republic for trial or to be examined
relating to any matters pending before
any such court-martial or Commissioners
respectively; or
(ii) that a prisoner detained in prison be removed
from one custody to another for purposes of
trial.
143. The Court of Appeal shall have the power to
grant and issue injunctions to prevent any irremediable
mischief which might ensure before a party making an
application for such injunction could prevent the same by
bringing an action in any Court of First Instance:
Power to
bring up and
remove
prisoners
Power to
grant
injunction
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 147
Provided that it shall not be lawful for the Court
of Appeal to grant an injunction to prevent a party to any
action in any court from appealing to or prosecuting an
appeal to the Court of Appeal or to prevent any party to
any action in any court from insisting upon any ground
of action, defence or appeal, or to prevent any person
from suing or prosecuting in any court, except where
such person has instituted two separate actions in two
different courts for and in respect of the same cause of
action, in which case the Court of Appeal shall have the
power to intervene by restraining him from prosecuting
one or other of such actions as to it may seem fit.
144. The Court of Appeal shall have and exercise
jurisdiction to try election petitions in respect of the
election to the membership of Parliament in terms of any
law for the time being applicable in that behalf.
145. The Court of Appeal may, ex mero motu or on
any application made, call for, inspect and examine any
record of any Court of First Instance and in the exercise
of its revisionary powers may make any order thereon as
the interests of justice may require.
146. (1) The Court of Appeal shall ordinarily
exercise its jurisdiction at Colombo:
Provided however that the Chief Justice may
from time to time when he deems it so expedient direct
that the Court of Appeal shall hold its sittings and
exercise its jurisdiction in any judicial zone or district,
specified in the direction.
131[(2) The jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal may
be exercised in different matters at the same time by the
several judges of the Court sitting apart:
Parliamentary
election
petitions
Inspection of
records
Sittings of the
Court of
Appeal
131 - Substituted by the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 6.
148 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Provided that –
(i) its jurisdiction in respect of –
(a) judgements and orders of the High
Court pronounced at a trial at Bar,
shall be exercised by at least three
Judges of the Court; and
(b) other judgement and orders of the
High Court, shall be exercised by at
least two Judges of the Court;
(ii) its jurisdiction in respect of its powers
under Article 144 shall be exercised by the
President of the Court of Appeal or any
judge of that Court nominated by the
President or one or more of such Judges
nominated by the President of whom such
President may be one;
(iii) its jurisdiction in respect of other matters,
shall be exercised by a single Judge of the
Court, unless the President of the Court
of Appeal by general or special order
otherwise directs.]
(3) In the event of any difference of opinion
between two Judges constituting the Bench, the decision
of the Court shall be suspended until three Judges shall
be present to review such matter.
(4) The judgment of the Court of Appeal, shall
when it is not an unanimous decision, be the decision of
the majority.
147. The Registry of the Court of Appeal shall be
in charge of an officer designated as the Registrar of the
Court of Appeal who shall be subject to the supervision,
direction and control of the President of the Court of
Appeal.
Registry of
the Court of
Appeal and
office of
Registrar
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 149
CHAPTER XVII
FINANCE
148. Parliament shall have full control over public
finance. No tax, rate or any other levy shall be imposed by
any local authority or any other public authority, except
by or under the authority of a law passed by Parliament or
of any existing law.
149. (1) The funds of the Republic not allocated by
law to specific purposes shall form one Consolidated
Fund into which shall be paid the produce of all taxes,
imposts, rates and duties and all other revenues and
receipts of the Republic not allocated to specific purposes.
(2) The interest on the public debt, sinking fund
payments, the costs, charges and expenses incidental to
the collection, management and receipt of the Consolidated
Fund and such other expenditure as Parliament may
determine shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.
150. (1) Save as otherwise expressly provided in
paragraphs (3) and (4) of this Article, no sum shall be
withdrawn from the Consolidated Fund except under the
authority of a warrant under the hand of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance.
(2) No such warrant shall be issued unless the
sum has by resolution of Parliament or by any law been
granted for specified public services for the financial
year during which the withdrawal is to take place or is
otherwise lawfully, charged on the Consolidated Fund.
(3) Where the President dissolves Parliament before
the Appropriation Bill for the financial year has passed
into law, he may, unless Parliament shall have already
made provision, authorize the issue from the Consolidated
Fund and the expenditure of such sums as he may
consider necessary for the public services until the expiry
Control of
Parliament
over public
finance
Consolidated
Fund
Withdrawal
of sums from
Consolidated
Fund
150 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
of a period of three months from the date on which the new
Parliament is summoned to meet.
(4) Where the President dissolves Parliament and
fixes a date or dates for a General Election the President
may, unless Parliament has already made provision in that
behalf, authorize the issue from the Consolidated Fund and
the expenditure of such sums as he may, after consultation
with the Commissioner of Elections, consider necessary
for such elections.
151. (1) Notwithstanding any of the provisions of
Article 149, Parliament may by law create a Contingencies
Fund for the purpose of providing for urgent and
unforeseen expenditure.
(2) The Minister in charge of the subject of Finance,
if satisfied –
(a) that there is need for any such expenditure; and
(b) that no provision for such expenditure exists,
may, with the consent of the President, authorize
provision to be made therefore by an advance from the
Contingencies Fund.
(3) As soon as possible after every such advance, a
Supplementary Estimate shall be presented to Parliament
for the purpose of replacing the amount so advanced.
152. No Bill or motion, authorizing the disposal of, or
the imposition of charges upon, the Consolidated Fund or
other funds of the Republic, or the imposition of any tax or
the repeal, augmentation or reduction of any tax for the
time being in force shall be introduced in Parliament
except by a Minister, and unless such Bill or motion has
been approved either by the Cabinet of Ministers or in such
manner as the Cabinet of Ministers may authorize.
Contingencies
Fund
Special
provisions
as to Bills
affecting
public
revenue
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 151
153.
132[(1) There shall be an Auditor-General who
shall be a qualified Auditor, and who shall 133[subject to
the approval of the Constitutional Council,] be appointed
by the President. The Auditor-General shall hold office
during good behaviour.]
(2) The salary of the Auditor-General shall be
determined by Parliament, shall be charged on the
Consolidated Fund and shall not be diminished during his
term of office.
(3) The office of the Auditor-General shall become
vacant -
(a) upon his death;
(b) on his resignation in writing addressed to the
President;
(c) on his attaining the age of sixty years;
(d) on his removal by the President on account of
ill health or physical or mental infirmity; or
(e) on his removal by the President upon an
address of Parliament.
134[(4) Whenever the Auditor-General is unable to
discharge the functions of his office, the President may,
135[subject to the approval of the Constitutional Council],
appoint a qualified auditor to act in the place of the
Auditor-General.]
136
[153A. (1) There shall be an Audit Service
Commission (in this Chapter referred to as the "Commission"),
which shall consist of the Auditor-General who shall
be the Chairman of the Commission, and the following
Auditor-General
132 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 32(1).
133 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 18(1).
134 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 32(2).
135 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 18(2).
136 - Inserted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 19.
Constitution
of the Audit
Service
Commission
152 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
members appointed by the President on the recommendation
of the Constitutional Council:-
(a) two retired officers of the Auditor-General's
Department, who have held office as a
Deputy Auditor-General or above;
(b) a retired judge of the Supreme Court, the
Court of Appeal or the High Court of Sri
Lanka; and
(c) a retired Class I officer of the Sri Lanka
Administrative Service.
(2) A person appointed as a member of the
Commission shall hold office for three years, unless he -
(a) earlier resigns from his office, by letter
addressed to the President;
(b) is removed from office as hereinafter
provided; or
(c) becomes a Member of Parliament or a
member of a Provincial Council or a local
authority.
(3) A person appointed as a member of the
Commission shall be eligible to be appointed for a
further term of office, on the recommendation of the
Constitutional Council.
(4) The President may, for cause assigned and with
the approval of the Constitutional Council, remove from
office any person appointed as a member of the
Commission under paragraph (1).
(5) The Chairman and the members of the
Commission shall be paid such allowances as are
determined by Parliament. Such allowances shall
be charged on the Consolidated Fund and shall not be 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 153
diminished during the term of office of the Chairman or
members.
(6) The Chairman and the members of the
Commission shall be deemed to be public servants within
the meaning and for the purposes of Chapter IX of the
Penal Code (Chapter 19).
(7) There shall be a Secretary to the Commission
who shall be appointed by the Commission.
153B. (1) The quorum for any meeting of the
Commission shall be three members of the Commission.
(2) Parliament shall, subject to paragraph (1),
provide by law for meetings of the Commission, the
establishment of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service and
such other matters connected with and incidental thereto.
153C. (1) The powers of appointment, promotion,
transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of the
members belonging to the Sri Lanka State Audit Service,
shall be vested in the Commission.
(2) The Commission shall also exercise, perform
and discharge the following powers, duties and functions:-
(a) make rules pertaining to schemes of
recruitment, the appointment, transfer,
disciplinary control and dismissal of the
members belonging to the Sri Lanka State
Audit Service, subject to any policy
determined by the Cabinet of Ministers
pertaining to the same;
(b) prepare annual estimates of the National
Audit Office established by law; and
(c) exercise, perform and discharge such other
powers, duties and functions as may be
provided for by law.
Meetings
of the
Commission
Powers and
functions
of the
Commission
154 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(3) The Commission shall cause the rules made
under paragraph (2) to be published in the Gazette.
(4) Every such rule shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may
be specified in such rule.
(5) Every such rule shall, within three months of
such publication in the Gazette be brought before
Parliament for approval. Any rule which is not so
approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to
anything previously done thereunder.
153D. (1) A person who otherwise than in the
course of his duty, directly or indirectly, by himself or
through any other person, in any manner whatsoever,
influences or attempts to influence any decision of the
Commission, any member thereof or any officer of the
Sri Lanka State Audit Service, commits an offence and
shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one
hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding three years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
(2) Every High Court established under Article
154P of the Constitution shall have jurisdiction to hear
and determine any matter referred to in paragraph (1).
153E. Subject to the jurisdiction conferred on the
Supreme Court under Article 126 and to the powers
granted to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal under
Article 153G, no court or tribunal shall have the power
or jurisdiction to inquire into, pronounce upon or in any
manner whatsoever call in question any order or decision
made by the Commission, in pursuance of any function
assigned to such Commission under this Chapter or under
any law.
Influencing
or attempting
to influence
decision
of the
Commission
or any officer
of the Sri
Lanka State
Audit
Service, to be
an offence
Immunity
from legal
proceedings
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 155
153F. The costs and expenses of the Commission
shall be a charge on the Consolidated Fund.
153G. Any officer of the Sri Lanka State Audit
Service who is aggrieved by any order relating to the
appointment, promotion or transfer of such officer or any
order on a disciplinary matter or dismissal made by the
Commission, in respect of such officer, may appeal
therefrom to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal
established under Article 59, which shall have the power to
alter, vary, rescind or confirm any order or decision made
by the Commission.
153H. The Commission shall be responsible and
answerable to Parliament in accordance with the
provisions of the Standing Orders of Parliament for the
discharge of its functions and shall forward to Parliament
in each calendar year a report of its activities in such year.]
154.
137[(1) The Auditor-General shall audit all
departments of the Government, the Office of the
Secretary to the President, the Office of the Secretary to
the Prime Minister, 138[the Office of the Secretary to the
Cabinet of Ministers, the Offices of the Ministers
appointed under Article 44 or 45, the Judicial Service
Commission, 139[The Constitutional Council, the Commissions
referred to in the schedule to Article 41B,] the Provincial
Public Service Commissions, the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration, the Secretary-General of Parliament, local authorities, public corporations, business and
other undertakings vested in the Government under any
written law and companies registered or deemed to be registered under the Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007 in which
the Government or a public corporation or local authority
holds fifty per centum or more of the shares of that
company, including the accounts thereof.]
Costs and
expenses
Appeals
to the
Administrative
Appeals
Tribunal
Commission
to be
answerable
to Parliament
Duties and
functions of
AuditorGeneral
137 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 36(1).
138 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 41.
139 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 20.
156 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1)
of this Article, the Minister in charge of any such
140[public corporation, business or other undertaking or a
company referred to in paragraph (1)] may, with the
concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance and in consultation with the Auditor-General,
appoint a qualified auditor or auditors to audit the accounts
of such 141[public corporation, business or other undertaking
or a company referred to in paragraph (1)]. Where such
appointment has been made by the Minister, the
Auditor-General may, in writing, inform such auditor or
auditors that he proposes to utilize his or their services for
the performance and discharge of the Auditor-General’s
duties and functions in relation to such 142[public corporation,
business or other undertaking or a company referred to in
paragraph (1)] and thereupon such auditor or auditors
shall act under the direction and control of the
Auditor-General.
(3) The Auditor-General shall also perform and
discharge such duties and functions as may be prescribed
by Parliament by law.
(4) (a) The Auditor-General may for the purpose of
the performance and discharge of his duties and functions
engage the services of a qualified auditor or auditors who
shall act under his direction and control.
 (b) If the Auditor-General is of opinion that it is
necessary to obtain assistance in the examination of any
technical, professional or scientific problem relevant to the
audit, he may engage the services of –
 (i) a person not being an employee of
the department, body or authority the
accounts of which are being audited, or
140 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 36(2).
141 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 36(2).
142 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 36(2).
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 157
(ii) any technical or professional or scientific
institution not being an institution which
has any interest in the management of
the affairs of such department, body or
authority,
and such person or institution shall act under his direction
and control.
(5) (a) The Auditor-General or any person
authorized by him shall in the performance and discharge
of his duties and functions be entitled –
(i) to have access to all books, records,
returns and other documents;
(ii) to have access to stores and other
property; and
(iii) to be furnished with such information
and explanations as may be necessary for
the performance of such duties and
functions.
(b) Every qualified auditor appointed to audit
the accounts of 143[any public corporation, business or
other undertaking or a company referred to in paragraph
(1)], or any person authorized by such auditor shall be
entitled to like access, information and explanations in
relation to such 144[public corporation, business or other
undertaking or a company referred to in paragraph (1).]
(6) The Auditor-General shall within ten months
after the close of each financial year and as and when he
deems it necessary report to Parliament on the
performance and, discharge of his duties and functions
under the Constitution.
143 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 36(3).
144 - Substituted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 36(3).
158 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(7) Every qualified auditor appointed under the
provisions of paragraph (2) of this Article shall submit his
report to the Minister and also submit a copy thereof to
the Auditor-General.
(8) In this Article, “qualified auditor” means –
(a) an individual who, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri
Lanka, or of any other Institute established
by law, possesses a certificate to practise as
an Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute; or
(b) firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri
Lanka or of any other Institute established by
law, possesses a certificate to practise as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
145[(9) The provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of
paragraph (8) shall apply to the Auditor-General
appointed under Article 153(1).]
145 - Inserted by the Nineteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 36(4).
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 159
146[CHAPTER XVII A
154A. (1) Subject to the provisions of the
Constitution, a Provincial Council shall be established for
every Province specified in the Eighth Schedule with
effect from such date or dates as the President may
appoint by Order published in the Gazette. Different dates
may be appointed in respect of different Provinces.
(2) Every Provincial Council established under
paragraph (1) shall be constituted upon the election of the
members of such Council in accordance with the law
relating to Provincial Council elections.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the preceding
provisions of this Article, Parliament may by, or under,
any law provide for two or three adjoining Provinces to
form one administrative unit with one elected Provincial
Council, one Governor, one Chief Minister and one
Board of Ministers and for the manner of determining
whether such Provinces should continue to be administered
as one administrative unit or whether each such Province
should constitute a separate administrative unit with its
own Provincial Council, and a separate Governor, Chief
Minister and Board of Ministers.
154B. (1) There shall be a Governor for each
Province for which a Provincial Council has been
established in accordance with Article 154A.
(2) The Governor shall be appointed by the
President by warrant under his hand and shall hold office,
in accordance with Article 4(b), during the pleasure of the
President.
(3) The Governor may, by writing addressed to the
President, resign his office.
Establishment
of Provincial
Councils
Governor
146 - Chapter XVII A inserted by the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution
Sec. 4. 
160 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(4) (a) The Provincial Council may, subject to
sub-paragraph (b), present an address to the President
advising the removal of the Governor on the ground that
the Governor –
(i) has intentionally violated the provisions
of the Constitution;
(ii) is guilty of misconduct or corruption
involving the abuse of the powers of his
office; or
(iii) is guilty of bribery or an offence
involving moral turpitude,
if a resolution for the presentation of such address is
passed by not less than two-thirds of the whole number of
members of the Council (including those not present).
(b) No resolution for the presentation of an
address to the President advising the removal of the
Governor on the grounds referred to in sub-paragraph (a)
shall be entertained by the Chairman of the Provincial
Council or discussed at the Council, unless notice of such
resolution is signed by not less than one-half of the whole
number of members present.
(5) Subject to the preceding provisions of this
Article, the Governor shall hold office for a period of five
years from the date he assumes office.
(6) Every person appointed as Governor shall
assume office upon taking or subscribing, the oath or
making or subscribing the affirmation, set out in the
Fourth Schedule, before the President.
(7) Upon such assumption of office a Governor shall
cease to hold any other office created or recognized by the
Constitution, and if he is a Member of Parliament, shall
vacate his seat in Parliament. The Governor shall not hold
any other office or place of profit.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 161
(8) (a) The Governor may, from time to time,
summon the Provincial Council to meet at
such time and place as he thinks fit, but two
months shall not intervene between the last
sitting in one session and the date appointed
for the first sitting in the next session.
(b) The Governor may, from time to time,
prorogue the Provincial Council.
(c) The Governor may dissolve the Provincial
Council.
(d) The Governor shall exercise his powers
under this paragraph in accordance with the
advice of the Chief Minister, so long as the
Board of Ministers commands, in the opinion
of the Governor, the support of the majority
of the Provincial Council.
(9) Without prejudice to the powers of the President
under Article 34 and subject to his directions the Governor
of a Province shall have the power to grant a pardon to every
person convicted of an offence against a statute made by the
Provincial Council of that Province or a law made by
Parliament on a matter in respect of which the Provincial
Council has power to make statutes and to grant a respite or
remission of punishment imposed by Court on any such person:
Provided that where the Governor does not agree
with the advice of the Board of Ministers in any case and
he considers it necessary to do so in the public interest, he
may refer that case to the President for orders.
(10) (a) The Governor may address the Provincial
Council and may for that purpose require the attendance of
members.
162 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(b) The Governor may also send messages to
the Council either with respect to a statute then pending
with the Council, or otherwise and when a message is so sent
the Council shall with all convenient dispatch consider any
matter required by the message to be taken into consideration.
(11) It shall be the duty of the Chief Minister of
every Province –
(a) to communicate to the Governor of the Province
all decisions of the Board of Ministers relating
to the administration of the affairs of the
Province and the proposals for legislation;
(b) to furnish such information relating to the
administration of the affairs of the Province
and proposals for legislation as the Governor
may call for; and
(c) if the Governor so requires, to submit for
consideration of the Board of Ministers any
matter on which a decision has been taken by
a Minister but which has not been considered
by the Board.
(12) Parliament shall by law or resolution make
provision for the salary, allowances, age of retirement and
pension entitlement of holders of the office of Governor.
154C. Executive power extending to the matters
with respect to which a Provincial Council has power to make
statutes shall be exercised by the Governor of the Province
for which that Provincial Council is established, either directly
or through Ministers of the Board of Ministers, or through
officers subordinate to him, in accordance with Article 154F.
154D. (1) A Provincial Council shall consist of such
number of members as may be determined by or under
Exercise of
executive
powers
by the
Governor
Membership
of Provincial
Council
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 163
law, having regard to the area and population of the
Province for which that Provincial Council is established.
(2) (a) A Provincial Council may at the commencement
of the term of office of its members, decide, by
resolution, to grant Members of Parliament elected for
electoral districts, the limits of which fall within the
Province for which that Provincial Council is established,
the right to participate in proceedings of that Council.
(b) So long as a resolution passed under
sub-paragraph (a) is in force, a Member of Parliament
elected for an electoral district, the limits of which fall
within the Province for which that Provincial Council is
established, shall have the right, during the term of office
of that Council, to speak in and otherwise take part in, the
proceedings of the Provincial Council and to speak in and
otherwise take part in, any committee of the Provincial
Council of which he may be named a member but shall
be entitled to vote thereat only if the resolution passed
under Sub-paragraph (a) so provides.
(c) The provisions of this paragraph shall cease
to operate on the date of dissolution of the first Parliament.
154E. A Provincial Council shall, unless sooner
dissolved, continue for a period of five years from the date
appointed for its first meeting and the expiration of the said
period of five years shall operate as a dissolution of the
Council.
154F. (1) There shall be a Board of Ministers
with the Chief Minister at the head and not more than
four other Ministers to aid and advise the Governor of a
Province in the exercise of his functions. The Governor
shall, in the exercise of his functions, act in accordance
with such advice, except in so far as he is by or under the
Term of
office
Board of
Ministers
164 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Constitution required to exercise his functions or any of
them in his discretion.
(2) If any question arises whether any matter is or is
not a matter as respects which the Governor is by or
under this Constitution required to act in his discretion,
the decision of the Governor in his discretion shall be
final and the validity of anything done by the Governor
shall not be called in question in any Court on the ground
that he ought or ought not have acted on his discretion.
The exercise of the Governor’s discretion shall be on the
President’s directions.
(3) The question whether any, and if so what, advice
was tendered by the Ministers to the Governor shall not
be, inquired into in any Court.
(4) The Governor shall appoint as Chief Minister,
the member of the Provincial Council constituted for that
Province, who, in his opinion, is best able to command
the support of a majority of the members of that Council:
Provided that where more than one-half of the
members elected to a Provincial Council are members of
one political party, the Governor shall appoint the leader
of that political party in the Council, as Chief Minister.
(5) The Governor shall, on the advice of the Chief
Minister, appoint from among the members of the Provincial
Council constituted for that Province, the other Ministers.
(6) The Board of Ministers shall be collectively
responsible and answerable to the Provincial Council.
(7) A person appointed to the office of Chief Minister
or member of the Board of Ministers shall not enter upon
the duties of his office until he takes and subscribes the oath, 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 165
or makes and subscribes the affirmation, set out in the
Fourth Schedule.
154G. (1) Every Provincial Council may, subject to the
provisions of the Constitution, make statutes applicable to
the Province for which it is established, with respect to any
matter set out in List I of the Ninth Schedule (hereinafter
referred to as “the Provincial Council List”).
(2) No Bill for the amendment or repeal of the
provisions of this Chapter or the Ninth Schedule shall
become law unless such Bill has been referred by the
president, after its publication in the Gazette and before it
is placed on the Order Paper of Parliament, to every
Provincial Council for the expression of its views thereon,
within such period as may be specified in the reference,
and -
(a) where every such Council agrees to the
amendment or repeal, such Bill is passed by
a majority of the Members of Parliament
present and voting; or
(b) where one or more Councils do not agree
to the amendment or repeal such Bill is
passed by the special majority required by
Article 82.
(3) No Bill in respect of any matter set out in the
Provincial Council List shall become law unless such Bill
has been referred by the President, after its publication in
the Gazette and before it is placed on the Order Paper of
Parliament, to every Provincial Council for the expression
of its views thereon, within such period as may be
specified in the reference, and –
(a) where every such Council agrees to the
Statutes of
Provincial
Councils
166 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
passing of the Bill, such Bill is passed by a
majority of the Members of Parliament
present and voting; or
(b) where one or more Councils do not agree to
the passing of the Bill, such Bill is passed by
the special majority required by Article 82:
Provided that where on such reference, some but
not all the Provincial Councils agree to the passing of a Bill,
such Bill shall become law applicable only to the Provinces
for which the Provincial Councils agreeing to the Bill have
been established, upon such Bill being passed by a majority
of the Members of Parliament present and voting.
(4) Where one or more Provincial Councils request
Parliament, by resolution, to make law on any matter set
out in the Provincial Council List, Parliament may make
law on that matter, applicable only to the Provinces for
which those Provincial Councils are established, by a
majority of Members of Parliament present and voting.
(5) (a) Parliament may make laws with respect to
any matter set out in List III of the Ninth Schedule
(hereinafter referred to as “the Concurrent List”) after such
consultation with all Provincial Councils as Parliament may
consider appropriate in the circumstances of each case.
(b) Every Provincial Council may, subject to the
provisions of the Constitution, make statutes applicable to
the Province for which it is established, with respect to any
matter on the Concurrent List, after such consultation
with Parliament as it may consider appropriate in the
circumstances of each case.
(6) If any provision of any statute made by a
Provincial Council is inconsistent with the provisions of
any law made in accordance with the preceding provisions 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 167
of this Article, the provisions of such law shall prevail and
the provisions of such statute shall, to the extent of such
inconsistency, be void.
(7) A Provincial Council shall have no power to
make statutes on any matter set out in List II of the Ninth
Schedule (hereinafter referred to as “the Reserved List”).
(8) Where there is a law with respect to any matter on
the Provincial Council List in force on the date on which
this Chapter comes into force and a Provincial Council
established for a Province subsequently makes a statute on
the same matter and which is described in its long title as
being inconsistent with that law, then, the provisions of the
law shall, with effect from the date on which that statute
receives assent and so long only as that statute is in force,
remain suspended and be inoperative within that Province.
(9) Where there is a law with respect to a matter on
the Concurrent List on the date on which this Chapter
comes into force and a Provincial Council established for a
Province subsequently makes a statute on the same matter
inconsistent with that law, the provisions of that law shall,
unless Parliament, by resolution, decides to the contrary,
remain suspended and be inoperative within that Province,
with effect from the date on which that statute receives
assent and so long only as that statute is in force.
(10) Nothing in this Article shall be read or construed
as derogating from the powers conferred on Parliament by
the Constitution to make laws, in accordance with the
Provisions of the Constitution (inclusive of this Chapter),
with respect to any matter, for the whole of Sri Lanka or
any part thereof.
(11) Notwithstanding anything in paragraph (3) of
this Article, Parliament may make laws, otherwise than in 
168 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Assent
accordance with the procedure set out in that paragraph, in
respect of any matter set out in the Provincial Council List
for implementing any treaty, agreement or convention
with any other country or countries or any decisions made
at an international conference, association, or other body.
154H. (1) Every statute made by a Provincial
Council shall come into force upon such statute receiving
assent as hereinafter provided.
(2) Every statute made by a Provincial Council shall
be presented to the Governor for his assent, forthwith
upon the making thereof and the Governor shall either
assent to the statute or he may as soon as possible after the
statute is presented to him for assent return it to the
Provincial Council together with a message requesting the
Council to reconsider the statute or any specified provision
thereof and in particular, requesting it to consider the
desirability of introducing such amendments as may be
recommended in the message.
(3) Where a statute is returned to a Provincial Council
by the Governor under paragraph (2), the Provincial Council
shall reconsider the statute having regard to the Governor’s
message and may pass such statute with or without
amendment and present it to the Governor for his assent.
(4) Upon presentation of a statute to the Governor
under paragraph (3), the Governor may assent to the statute
or reserve it for reference by the President to the Supreme
Court, within one month of the passing of the statute for the
second time, for a determination that it is not inconsistent
with the provisions of the Constitution. Where upon such
reference, the Supreme Court determines that the statute is
consistent with the provisions of the Constitution, the Governor
shall, on receipt by him of the Court’s determination,
assent to the statute. Where upon such reference, the 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 169
Supreme Court determines that the statute is inconsistent
with the provisions of the Constitution, the Governor
shall withhold assent to the statute.
154J. (1) Upon the making of a proclamation
under the Public Security Ordinance or the law for the time
being in force relating to public security, bringing the
provisions of such Ordinance or law into operation on the
ground that the maintenance of essential supplies and
services is, threatened or that the security of Sri Lanka
is threatened by war or external aggression or armed
rebellion, the President may give directions to any Governor
as to the manner in which the executive power exercisable
by the Governor is to be exercised. The directions so
given shall be in relation to the grounds specified in such
Proclamation for the making thereof.
Explanation: A Proclamation under the Public
Security Ordinance declaring that the maintenance of
essential supplies and services is threatened or that the
security of Sri Lanka or any part of the territory thereof
is threatened by war, or by external aggression, or by armed
rebellion may be made before the actual breakdown of
supplies and services, or the actual occurrence of war, or
of any such aggression or rebellion, if the President is
satisfied that there is imminent danger thereof:
Provided that where such Proclamation is in
operation only in any part of Sri Lanka, the power of the
President to give directions under this Article, shall also
extend to any Province other than the Province in which
the Proclamation is in operation if, and in so far as it is
expedient so to do for ensuring the maintenance of essential
supplies and services or the security of Sri Lanka.
(2) A Proclamation under the Public Security
Ordinance or the law for the time being relating to public
Public
Security
170 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
security, shall be conclusive for all purposes and shall not
be questioned in any Court, and no Court or Tribunal shall
inquire into, or pronounce on, or in any manner call in
question, such Proclamation, the grounds for the making
thereof, or the existence of those grounds or any direction
given under this Article.
154K. Where the Governor or any Provincial
Council has failed to comply with, or give effect to any
directions given to such Governor or such Council under
this Chapter of the Constitution, it shall be lawful for the
President to hold that a situation has arisen in which the
administration of the Province cannot carried on in
accordance with the provisions of the Constitution.
154L. (1) If the President, on receipt of a report from
the Governor of the Province or otherwise, is satisfied that
a situation has arisen in which the administration of the
Province cannot be carried on in accordance with the
provisions of the Constitution, the President may by
Proclamation –
(a) assume to himself all or any of the functions
of the administration of the Province and
all or any of the powers vested in, or
exercisable by, the Governor or any body or
authority in the Province other than the
Provincial Council;
(b) declare that the powers of the Provincial
Council shall be exercisable by, or under the
authority of Parliament;
(c) make such incidental and consequential
provisions as appear to the President to be
necessary or desirable for giving effect to the
objects of the Proclamation:
Failure to
comply with
directions
Failure of
administrative
machinery
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 171
Provided that nothing in this paragraph shall
authorize the President to assume to himself any of the
powers vested in, or exercisable, by any Court.
(2) Any such Proclamation may be revoked or varied
by a subsequent Proclamation.
(3) Every Proclamation under this Article shall be
laid before Parliament and shall, except where it is a
Proclamation revoking a previous Proclamation, cease to
operate at the expiration of fourteen days unless before
expiration of that period it has been approved by a
resolution of Parliament:
Provided that if any such Proclamation (not
being a Proclamation revoking a previous Proclamation)
is issued at a time when Parliament is dissolved or the
dissolution of Parliament takes place during the period
of fourteen days referred to in this paragraph but no
resolution with respect to such Proclamation has been
passed by Parliament before the expiration of that period,
the proclamation shall cease to operate at the expiration of
fourteen days from the date on which Parliament first sits
after its reconstitution, unless before the expiration of the
said period of fourteen days a resolution approving the
Proclamation has been passed by Parliament.
(4) A Proclamation so approved shall, unless earlier
revoked, cease to operate on the expiration of a period of
two months from the date of issue of the Proclamation:
Provided that if and so often as a resolution
approving the continuance in force of such a Proclamation
is passed by Parliament, the Proclamation shall, unless revoked
continue in force for a further period of two months from the
date on which under this paragraph is, would otherwise have
ceased to operate, but no such Proclamation shall in any
case remain in force for more than one year:
172 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Provided further that if the dissolution of Parliament
takes place during any such period of two months but no
resolution with respect to the continuance in force of such
Proclamation has been passed by Parliament during the
said period, the Proclamation shall cease to operate at the
expiration of fourteen days from the date on which
Parliament first sits after its reconstitution unless before
the expiration of the said period of fourteen days a
Proclamation approving the continuance in force of the
Proclamation has been passed by Parliament.
(5) Notwithstanding anything in this Article, the
President may within fourteen days of his making a
Proclamation under paragraph (1) and for the purpose of
satisfying himself with regard to any of the matters
referred to in that paragraph, appoint a retired Judge of the
Supreme Court to inquire into and report upon such
matters within a period of sixty days. A Judge so appointed
shall in relation to such inquiry have the powers of a
Commissioner appointed under the Commissions of
Inquiry Act. Upon receipt of the report of such Judge,
the President may revoke the Proclamation made under
paragraph (1).
(6) A Proclamation under this Article shall be
conclusive for all purposes and shall not be questioned in
any Court, and no Court or Tribunal shall inquire into, or
pronounce on, or in any manner call in question, such
Proclamation or the grounds for making thereof.
154M. (1) Where by a Proclamation issued
under paragraph (1) of Article 154L, it has been declared
that the powers of the Provincial Council shall be
exercisable by or under the authority, of Parliament, it
shall be competent –
(a) for Parliament to confer on the President,
Parliament
to confer
powers of
Provincial
Council to
President
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 173
Financial
instability
the power of the Provincial Council to make
statutes and to authorize the President to delegate,
subject to such conditions as he may think fit to
impose, the power so conferred, on any other
authority specified by him in that behalf;
(b) for the President to authorize, when Parliament is
not in session, expenditure from the Provincial
Fund of the Province pending sanction of such
expenditure by Parliament.
(2) A statute made by Parliament or the President or
other authority referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph
(1), during the continuance in force of a Proclamation
issued under paragraph (1) of Article 154L, shall continue
in force until amended or repealed by the Provincial
Council.
154N. (1) If the President is satisfied that a situation
has arisen whereby the financial stability or credit of Sri
Lanka or of any part of the territory thereof is threatened,
he may by Proclamation make a declaration to that effect.
(2) A Proclamation issued under paragraph (1) –
(a) may be revoked or varied by a subsequent
Proclamation;
(b) shall be laid before Parliament;
(c) shall cease to operate at the expiration of two
months, unless before the expiration of that
period it has been approved by a resolution of
Parliament:
Provided that if any such Proclamation is issued
at a time when Parliament has been dissolved or the
dissolution of Parliament takes place during the period of two
174 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
months referred to in sub-paragraph (c), but no resolution
with respect to such Proclamation has been passed by
Parliament before the expiration of that period, the
Proclamation shall cease to operate at the expiration of
thirty days from the date on which Parliament first sits
after its reconstitution, unless before the expiration of the
said period of thirty days a resolution approving the
Proclamation has been passed by Parliament.
(3) During the period and such Proclamation as is
mentioned in paragraph (1) is in operation, the President
may give directions to any Governor of a Province to
observe such canons of financial propriety as may be
specified in the directions, and to give such other
directions as the President may deem necessary and
adequate for the purpose.
(4) Notwithstanding anything in the Constitution
any such direction may include –
(a) a provision requiring the reduction of salaries
and allowances of all or any class of persons
serving in connection with the affairs of the
Province;
(b) a provision requiring all statutes providing
for payments into or out of, a Provincial
Fund to be reserved for the consideration of
the President after they are passed by the
Provincial Council.
154P. (1) There shall be a High Court for
each Province with effect from the date on which this
Chapter comes into force. Each such High Court shall be
designated as the High Court of the relevant Province.
(2) The Chief Justice shall nominate, from among
High Court
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 175
Judges of the High Court of Sri Lanka, such number of
Judges as may be necessary to each such High Court. Every
such Judge shall be transferable by the Chief Justice.
(3) Every such High Court shall –
(a) exercise according to law, the original criminal
jurisdiction of the High Court of Sri Lanka in
respect of offences committed within the
Province;
(b) notwithstanding anything in Article 138 and
subject to any law, exercise, appellate and
revisionary jurisdiction in respect of convictions,
sentences and orders entered or imposed by
Magistrates Courts and Primary Courts within
the Province;
(c) exercise such other jurisdiction and powers as
Parliament may, by law, provide.
(4) Every such High Court shall have jurisdiction to
issue, according to law –
(a) orders in the nature of habeas corpus, in respect
of persons illegally detained within the
Province; and
(b) order in the nature of writs of certiorari,
prohibition, procedendo, mandamus and quo
warranto against any person exercising,
within the Province, any power under –
(i) any law; or
(ii) any statutes made by the Provincial
Council established for that Province,
176 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Functions,
powers,
election, & c.
of Provincial
Councils
in respect of any matter set out in the Provincial
Council List.
(5) The Judicial Service Commission may delegate
to such High Court, the power to inspect and report on,
the administration of any Court of First Instance within
the Province.
(6) subject to the provisions of the Constitution and
any law, any person aggrieved by a final order, judgement
or sentence of any such Court, in the exercise of its
jurisdiction under paragraphs (3)(b) or (3)(c) or (4) may
appeal there from to the Court of Appeal in accordance
with Article 138.
154Q. Parliament shall by law provide for –
(a) the election of members of Provincial Councils
and the qualifications for membership of
such Councils;
(b) the procedure for transaction of business by
every such Council;
(c) the salaries and allowances of members of
Provincial Councils; and
(d) any other matter necessary for the purpose
of giving effect to the principles of
provisions of this Chapter, and for any
matters connected with or incidental to, the
provisions of this Chapter.
154R. (1) There shall be a Finance Commission
consisting of –
(a) the Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka;
Finance
Commission
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 177
(b) the Secretary to the Treasury; and
147[(c) three other members appointed by the
President, 148[on the recommendation of the
Constitutional Council,] to represent the three
major communities each of whom shall be a
person who has distinguished himself, or held
high office, in the field of finance, law,
administration, business or learning.]
(2) Every member of the Commission shall, unless he
earlier dies, resigns or is removed from office, hold office
for a period of three years.
(3) The Government shall, on the recommendation
of, and in consultation with, the Commission, allocate
from the Annual Budget, such funds as are adequate for
the purpose of meeting the needs of the Provinces.
(4) It shall be the duty of the Commission to make
recommendations to the President as to –
(a) the principles on which such funds as are
granted annually by the Government for the
use of Provinces, should be apportioned between the various Provinces; and
(b) any other matter referred to the Commission
by the President relating to Provincial Finance.
(5) The Commission shall formulate such principles
with the objective of achieving balanced regional development
in the country, and shall accordingly take into account –
(a) the population of each Province;
147 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 42.
148 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 21. 
178 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(b) the per capita income of each Province;
(c) the need, progressively, to reduce social and
economic disparities; and
(d) the need, progressively, to reduce the difference
between the per capita income of each Province
and the highest per capita income among the
Provinces.
(6) The Commission shall determine its own
procedure and shall have such powers in the performance
of its duties as Parliament may, by law, confer on it.
(7) The President shall cause every recommendation
made by the Finance Commission under this Article to be
laid before Parliament, and shall notify Parliament as to the
action taken thereon.
(8) No Court or Tribunal shall inquire into, or
pronounce on, or in any manner entertain, determine or rule
upon, any question relating to the adequacy of such funds,
or any recommendation made, or principle formulated by,
the Commission.
154S. (1) A Provincial Council may, by resolution,
decide not to exercise its powers under Article 154G with
respect to any matter or part thereof set out in the Provincial
Council List or the Concurrent List of the Ninth Schedule.
(2) Where a resolution has been passed by a Provincial
Council under paragraph (1) and the terms of such resolution
have been accepted by Parliament, by resolution, the powers
of such Provincial Council under Article 154G shall
be deemed not to extend to the matter specified in such
resolution and Parliament may make law, with respect to
that matter, applicable to the province for which that Provincial
Special
Provision
enabling
Provincial
Councils not
to exercise
powers
under this
Chapter
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 179
Transitional
measures
Council is established, otherwise than in accordance with
the provisions of Article 154G.
154T. The President may by Order published in
the Gazette, take such action, or give such directions, not
inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution, as
appears to him to be necessary or expedient, for the
purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Chapter,
or for the administrative changes necessary therefor, or for
the purpose of removing any difficulties.]
180 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
CHAPTER XVIII
PUBLIC SECURITY
155. (1) The Public Security Ordinance as amended
and in force immediately prior to the commencement of
the Constitution shall be deemed to be a law enacted by
Parliament.
(2) The power to make emergency regulations under
the Public Security Ordinance or the law for the time
being in force relating to public security shall include the power
to make regulations having the legal effect of over-riding,
amending or suspending the operation of the provisions of
any law, except the provisions of the Constitution.
(3) The provisions of any law relating to public security,
empowering the President to make emergency regulations
which have the legal effect of over-riding, amending or
suspending the operation of the provisions of any law, shall
not come into operation, except upon the making of a
Proclamation under such law, bringing such provisions into
operation.
149[(3A) Nothing in the preceding provisions of this
Constitution shall be deemed to prohibit the making
of emergency regulations, under the Public Security
Ordinance or the law for the time being in force relating to
public security, with respect to any matter set out in the Ninth
Schedule or having the effect of over-riding amending or
suspending the operation of a statute made by a Provincial
Council.]
(4) Upon the making of such a Proclamation, the
occasion thereof shall, subject to the other provisions of
this Article, be forthwith communicated to Parliament and
accordingly –
Public
Security
149 - Inserted by the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 5.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 181
(i) if such Proclamation is issued after the
dissolution of Parliament such Proclamation
shall operate as a summoning of Parliament to
meet on the tenth day after such Proclamation,
unless the Proclamation appoints an earlier date for
the meeting which shall not be less than three
days from the date of the Proclamation; and the
Parliament so summoned shall be kept in session
until the expiry or revocation of such or any
further Proclamation or until the conclusion of
the General Election whichever event occurs
earlier and shall thereupon stand dissolved;
(ii) if Parliament is at the date of the making of
such Proclamation, separated by any such
adjournment or prorogation as will not expire
within ten days, a Proclamation shall be issued
for the meeting of Parliament within ten days.
(5) Where the provisions of any law relating to public
security have been brought into operation by the making of
a Proclamation under such law, such Proclamation shall,
subject to the succeeding provisions of this Article, be in
operation for a period of one month from the date of
the making thereof, but without prejudice to the earlier
revocation of such Proclamation or to the making of a
further Proclamation at or before the end of that period.
(6) Where such provisions as are referred to in
paragraph (3) of this Article, of any law relating to public
security, have been brought into operation by the making of
a Proclamation under such law, such Proclamation shall
expire after a period of fourteen days from the date on
which such provisions shall have come into operation,
unless such Proclamation is approved by a resolution of
Parliament:
182 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Provided that if -
(a) Parliament stands dissolved at the date of the
making of such Proclamation; or
(b) Parliament is at such date separated by any
such adjournment or prorogation as is referred to in paragraph (4)(ii) of this Article;
or
(c) Parliament does not meet when summoned to
meet as provided in paragraphs (4)(i) and (4)
(ii) of this Article,
then such Proclamation shall expire at the end of ten
days after the date on which Parliament shall next meet
and sit, unless approved by a resolution at such meeting of
Parliament.
(7) Upon the revocation of a Proclamation referred
to in paragraph (6) of this Article within a period of fourteen days from the date on which the provisions of any
law relating to public security shall have come into operation or upon the expiry of such a Proclamation in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (6), no Proclamation made within thirty days next ensuring shall come
into operation until the making thereof shall have been
approved by a resolution of Parliament.
150[Repealed]
151[(8)] If Parliament does not approve any
Proclamation bringing such provisions as are referred to
in paragraph (3) of this Article into operation, such
150 - Paras (8) and (9) repealed by the Tenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2(1).
151 - Para (10) renumbered as Para (8) by the Tenth Amendment to the Constitution
Sec. 2(2).
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 183
152 - Para (11) renumbered as Para (9) by the Tenth Amendment to the Constitution
Sec. 2(2).
153 - Substituted by the Tenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2(3).
Proclamation shall, immediately upon such disapproval,
cease to be valid and of any force in law but without
prejudice to anything lawfully done thereunder.
152[(9)] If the making of a Proclamation cannot be
communicated to and approved by Parliament by reason of
the fact that Parliament does not meet when summoned,
nothing 153[contained in paragraph (6) or (7), of this
Article], shall affect the validity or operation of such
Proclamation:
Provided that in such event, Parliament shall
again be summoned to meet as early as possible thereafter.
 
184 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
154[CHAPTER XVIII A
NATIONAL POLICE COMMISSION
155A. 155[(1) There shall be a National Police
Commission (in this Chapter referred to as the
“Commission”) consisting of not less than five members
and not more than seven members appointed by the
President 156[on the recommendation of the constitutional
Council,] The President shall appoint one member as the
Chairman of the Commission.]
(2) No person shall be appointed as a member of the
Commission or continue to hold office as such member if
he is or becomes a member of Parliament, a Provincial
Council or a local authority.
(3) Every person who immediately before his
appointment as a member of the Commission, was a
public officer in the service of the State or a judicial
officer, shall upon such appointment taking effect, cease
to hold such office and shall be ineligible for further
appointment as a public officer or a judicial officer:
Provided that any such person shall, until he
ceases to be a member of the Commission, or while
continuing to be a member, attains the age at which he
would, if he were a public officer or a judicial officer, as the
case may be, be required to retire, be deemed to be a public
officer or a judicial officer and to hold a pensionable
office in the service of the State, for the purpose of any
provision relating to the grant of pensions, gratuities and
other allowances in respect of such service.
157[(4) Every member of the Commission shall
154 - New Chapter XVIII A inserted by the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution
Sec. 20.
155 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 43 (1).
156 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 22.
157 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 43(2).
Constitution
of the
National
Police
Commission
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 185
hold office for a period of three years from the date
of his appointment, unless he becomes subject to any
disqualification under paragraph (2) of this Article, or
earlier resigns from his office by writing addressed to the
President or is removed from office by the President, or is
convicted by a court of law of any offence involving moral
turpitude or if a resolution for the imposition of civic disability upon him has been passed in terms of Article 81 or
is deemed to have vacated his office under paragraph (6) of
this Article.]
(5) A member of the Commission shall be eligible for
reappointment as a member, but shall not be eligible for
appointment as a public officer or a judicial officer after
the expiry of his term of office as a member. No member
shall be eligible to hold office as a member of the
Commission for more than two terms.
(6) In the event of the Chairman or a member of the
Commission absenting himself from three consecutive
meetings of the Commission without the prior leave of the
Commission, he shall be deemed to have vacated his office
from the date of the third of such meetings and shall not be
eligible to be reappointed as a member or as Chairman of
the Commission.
(7) The Chairman and members of the Commission
shall be paid such allowances as are determined by
Parliament. Such allowances shall be charged on the
Consolidated Fund and shall not be diminished during the
term of office of the Chairman or member.
(8) The Chairman and members of the Commission
shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning
and for the purposes of Chapter IX of the Penal Code.
186 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
158 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 44(1).
159 - Inserted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 23.
160 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 24.
Meetings
of the
Commission
Immunity
from legal
Proceedings
155B. (1) The quorum for a meeting of the
Commission shall be 158[five] members.
(2) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the
Commission and in his absence a member elected by the
members present from amongst the members shall preside
at such meeting.
(3) Decisions of the Commission shall be by a
majority of members present and voting at the meeting at
which the decision is taken and in the event of an equality
of votes the Chairman or the person presiding shall have a
casting vote.
(4) The Commission shall have power to act
notwithstanding any vacancy in its membership, and any
act or proceeding or decision of the Commission shall not be
invalid or deemed to be invalid by reason only of such vacancy
or any defect in the appointment of the Chairman or member.
159[(5) The Inspector-General of Police shall be
entitled to be present at meetings of the Commission, except
where any matter relating to him is being considered. He
shall have no right to vote at such meetings.]
155C. Subject to the jurisdiction conferred on the
Supreme Court 160[under paragraph (1) of Article 126 and
the powers granted to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal
under Article 155L,] no court or tribunal shall have the
power or jurisdiction to inquire into, or pronounce upon or
in any manner call in question any order or decision made
by the Commission or a Committee, in pursuance of any
power or duty, conferred or imposed on such Commission
or Committee under this Chapter or under any other law.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 187
Secretary
to the
Commission
Costs and
expenses
Interference
with the
Commission
Commission
to make rules
Powers of the
Commission
161 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 46.
162 - Inserted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 47.
163 - Inserted by the Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 27.
155D. There shall be a Secretary to the
Commission and such other officers appointed by the
Commission on such terms and conditions as may be
determined by the Commission.
155E. The costs and expenses of the Commission
shall be a charge on the Consolidated Fund.
155F. (1) Every person who, otherwise than in
the course of such person’s lawful duty 161[directly or
indirectly by himself or by or with any other person, in
any manner whatsoever influences or attempts to influence
or interferes with any decision of the Commission or
a Committee or to so influence any member of the
Commission or a Committee shall be guilty] of an offence
and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding
one hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding seven years, or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
(2) A High Court established under Article 154P
of the Constitution shall have jurisdiction to hear and
determine any matter referred to in paragraph (1).
162[155FF. The Commission shall be empowered
to entertain and investigate complaints from members of
the public or any aggrieved person against a police officer
or the police force, and shall provide redress in accordance
with the provisions of any law enacted by Parliament. For
this purpose the Commission may make rules to establish
procedures for entertaining and investigating complaints
from members of the public or any aggrieved person.]
163 [155FFF. The Commission shall from time to
time, make rules for such matters which require rules to be 
188 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
164[Powers
of the
Commission
made. Every such rule shall be published in the Gazette.]
155G. (1) (a) The appointment, promotion, transfer,
disciplinary control and dismissal of police officers other
than the Inspector-General of Police, shall be vested in the
Commission. The Commission shall exercise its powers of
promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal in
consultation with the Inspector-General of Police.
(b) The Commission shall not in the exercise
of its powers under this Article, derogate from the powers
and functions assigned to the provincial Police Service
Commissions as and when such Commissions are
established under Chapter XVII A of the Constitution.
(2) The Commission shall establish procedures to
entertain and investigate public complaints and complaints of
any aggrieved person made against a police officer or the police
service, and provide redress as provided by law. In the event
of the Commission providing redress, the Commission
shall forthwith inform the Inspector-General of Police.
(3) The Commission shall, in consultation with the
Inspector-General of Police, provide for and determine all
matters regarding police officers, including -
(a) the formulation of schemes of recruitment,
promotion and transfer, subject to any policy
determined by the Cabinet of Ministers pertaining to the same;
(b) training and the improvement of the efficiency
and independence of the police service;
(c) the nature and type of the arms, ammunition
164 - Inserted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 25. 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 189
and other equipment necessary for the use of
the National Division and the Provincial
Divisions; and
(d) codes of conduct and disciplinary procedures.
(4) The Commission shall exercise all such powers
and discharge and perform all such duties and functions as
are vested in it under Appendix I of list I contained in the
Ninth Schedule to the Constitution.
155H. (1) The Commission may delegate to a
Committee of the Commission (not consisting of members
of the Commission) as shall be nominated by the Commission,
the powers of appointment, promotion, transfer,
disciplinary control and dismissal of such categories of
police officers as are specified by the Commission.
(2) The Commission shall cause to be published in
the Gazette, the appointment of any such Committee.
(3) The procedure and quorum for meetings of a
Committee nominated under paragraph (1) shall be according to rules made by the Commission. The Commission
shall cause such rules to be published in the Gazette.
155J. (1) The Commission may, subject to such
conditions and procedures as may be specified by the
Commission, delegate to the Inspector-General of Police
or in consultation with the Inspector-General of police to
any police officer, its powers of appointment, promotion,
transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal of any category
of police officers.
(2) The Commission shall cause any such delegation
to be published in the Gazette.
Delegation
of certain
powers of the
Commission
to a
Committee
Delegation
of certain
functions by
the
Commission 
190 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
155K. (1) Where the Commission has delegated
under Article 155J to any police officer its powers of
appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and
dismissal of any category of police officers, the
Inspector-General of Police shall have a right of appeal to
the Commission against any order made by such police
officer in the exercise of the powers delegated to him.
(2) A police officer aggrieved by any order relating
to promotion, transfer or any order on a disciplinary
matter or dismissal made by a Committee or the
Inspector-General of Police or a police officer referred
to in Articles 155H and 155J in respect of such officer
may appeal to the Commission against such order in
accordance with rules made by the Commission, from time
to time, regulating the procedure and the period fixed for
the making and hearing of an appeal by the Commission.
(3) The Commission shall have the power to alter,
vary, rescind or confirm such order upon an appeal made
under paragraph (1) or paragraph (2), or to give directions
in relation thereto or to order such further or other inquiry,
as the Commission shall deem fit.
(4) The Commission shall, from time to time, cause
to be published in the Gazette, rules made by it under
paragraph (2) of this Article.
(5) Upon any delegation of its powers to a
Committee or the Inspector-General of Police or police
officer under Articles 155H and 155J, the Commission
shall not, whilst such delegation is in force, exercise,
perform or discharge its powers, duties or functions in
respect of the categories of police officers in respect of
which such delegation is made, subject to the right of
appeal hereinbefore provided.
Right of
appeal
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 191
155L. Any police officer aggrieved by any order
relating to promotion, transfer or any order on a
disciplinary matter or dismissal made by the Commission
in terms of Article 155K, in respect of such officer, may
appeal therefrom to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal
established under Article 59, which shall have the power
to alter, vary, rescind or confirm any order or decision
made by the Commission.]
165[155M. Until the Commission otherwise
provides, all rules, regulations and procedures relating to
the Police Force as are in force on the date of the coming
into operation of this Article, shall continue to be operative
and in force.]
155N. The Commission shall be responsible and
answerable to Parliament in accordance with the
provisions of the Standing Orders of Parliament for the
exercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties
and functions and shall forward to Parliament in each
calendar year a report of its activities in such year.]
Saving of
existing rules
and
regulations
Appeals to
Administrative
Appeals
Tribunal
Commission
answerable
to Parliament
165 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 26. 
192 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
CHAPTER XIX
THE PARLIAMENTARY COMMISSIONER FOR
ADMINISTRATION
156. (1) Parliament shall by law provide for the
establishment of the office of the Parliamentary
Commissioner for Administration (Ombudsman) charged
with the duty of investigating and reporting upon complaints or allegations of the infringement of fundamental
rights and other injustices by public officers and officers of
public corporations, local authorities and other like institutions, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of
such law.
166[(2) The Parliamentary Commissioner for
shall, 167[Subject to the approval of the Constitutional
Council,] be appointed by the President and shall hold
office during good behaviour.]
(3) The salary of the Parliamentary Commissioner
for Administration shall be determined by Parliament and
shall not be diminished during his term of office.
(4) The office of the Parliamentary Commissioner
for Administration shall become vacant –
(a) upon his death;
(b) on his resignation in writing addressed to the
President;
(c) on his attaining the age fixed by law;
(d) on his removal by the President on account of
Parliamentary
Commissioner
for
Administration
166 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 54(1).
167 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 27(1).
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 193
ill health or physical or mental infirmity; or
(e) on his removal by the President on an address
of Parliament.
168[(5) Whenever the Parliamentary Commissioner
for Administration is unable to perform and discharge the
duties and functions of his office, the President shall,
169[Subject to the approval of the Constitutional Council,]
appoint a person to act in his place.]
168 - Substituted by the Twentieth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 54(2).
169 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 27(2).
194 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
170[CHAPTER XIX A
 Commission to Investigate Allegations of
Bribery or Corruption
156A. (1) Parliament shall by law provide for the
establishment of a Commission to investigate allegations
of bribery or corruption. Such law shall provide for -
(a) the appointment of the members of the
Commission by the President on the
recommendation of the Constitutional
Council;
(b) the powers of the Commission, including the
power to direct the holding of a preliminary
inquiry or the making of an investigation into
an allegation of bribery or corruption, whether
of its own motion or on a complaint made to
it, and the power to institute prosecutions for
offences under the law in force relating to
bribery or corruption; and
(c) measures to implement the United Nations
Convention Against Corruption and any other
International Convention relating to the
prevention of corruption, to which Sri Lanka
is a party.
(2) Until Parliament so provides, the Commission to
investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption Act, No.
19 of 1994 shall apply, subject to the modification that it
shall be lawful for the Commission appointed under that
Act, to inquire into, or investigate, an allegation of bribery
or corruption, whether on its own motion or on a written
complaint made to it.
Commission
to investigate
bribery or
corruption
170 - Chapters XIX A and XIX B Inserted by the Twenty First Amendment to the
Constitution Sec. 28.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 195
CHAPTER XIX B
 National Procurement Commission
156B. (1) There shall be a National Procurement
Commission (in this Chapter referred to as the “Commission”)
consisting of five members appointed by the President on
the recommendation of the Constitutional Council, of
whom at least three members shall be persons who have
had proven experience in procurement, accountancy, law
or public administration. The President shall, on the recommendation of the Constitutional Council, appoint one
member as the Chairman of the Commission.
(2) Every member of the Commission shall hold
office for a period of three years from the date of appointment,
unless such member earlier resigns from office by a writing
addressed to the President or is removed from office by the
President for causes assigned with the approval of the
Constitutional Council or is convicted by a court of law for
an offence involving moral turpitude or is elected as a Member
of Parliament or as a member of a Provincial Council or
of a local authority or if a resolution for the imposition of a
civic disability on him is passed in terms of Article 81.
(3) The Chairman and every member of the
Commission shall be paid such allowances as may be
determined by a resolution of Parliament. Such allowances
shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund and shall not be
diminished during the term of office of such Chairman or
the member.
156C. (1) It shall be the function of the Commission
to formulate fair, equitable, transparent, competitive and cost
effective procedures and guidelines, for the procurement of
goods and services, works, consultancy services and
information systems by government institutions and cause
National
Procurement
Commission
Functions
of the
Commission
196 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
such guidelines to be published in the Gazette and within three
months of such publications, to be placed before Parliament.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph
(1), it shall be the function of the Commission to -
(a) monitor and report to the appropriate
authorities, on whether all procurement of goods
and services, works, consultancy services and
information systems by government institutions
are based on procurement plans prepared in
accordance with previously approved action
plans;
(b) monitor and report to the appropriate
authorities on whether all qualified bidders for
the provision of goods and services, works,
consultancy services and information systems
by government institutions are afforded an
equal opportunity to participate in the bidding
process for the provision of those goods and
services, works, consultancy services and information systems;
(c) monitor and report to the appropriate
authorities on whether the procedures for the
selection of contractors, and the awarding of
contracts for the provision of goods and
services, works, consultancy services and
information systems to Government institutions,
are fair and transparent;
(d) report on whether members of Procurement
Committees and Technical Evaluation
Committees relating to the procurements,
appointed by government institutions are
suitably qualified; and
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 197
(e) investigate reports of procurements made by
government institutions outside established
procedures and guidelines, and to report the
officers responsible for such procurements to
the relevant authorities for necessary action.
156D. (1) The Commission may, by Notice in writing,
require any person to -
(a) attend before the Commission, to be questioned
be the Commission;
(b) produce to the Commission, any document or
thing in the possession or control of that
person and specified in such Notice.
(2) Every person who -
(a) fails, without reasonable cause to appear before
the Commission when required to do so by a
Notice sent to him under paragraph (1);
(b) appears before the Commission in compliance
with such a Notice, but refuses without
reasonable cause, to answer any questions put
to him by the Commission; or
(c) fails or refuses, without reasonable cause, to
produce any document or thing which he was
required to produce by a Notice sent to him
under paragraph (1),
commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable
to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years, or to
both such fine and imprisonment.
Powers of the
Commission
198 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(3) Every High Court established under Article 154P
of the Constitution shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine any matter referred to in paragraph (2).
156E. (1) The Commission shall meet as often as
may be necessary for the discharge of its functions.
(2) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the
Commission. In the absence of the Chairman from any
meeting of the Commission, the members present shall
elect a Chairman for that meeting, from among themselves.
(3)The quorum for any meeting of the Commission
shall be three.
(4) Decisions of the Commission shall be by the
majority vote of the members present and voting at the
meeting at which the decision is taken, and in the event of
an equality of votes, the Chairman or member presiding at
the meeting shall have a casting vote.
(5) Subject to the preceding provisions of this Article,
the Commission may determine the procedure with regard to
its meetings and the transaction of business at such meetings.
(6) The Commission shall have the power to act
notwithstanding any vacancy in the membership of the
Commission, and no act, proceeding or decision of the
Commission shall be invalid or deemed to be invalid, by
reason only of such vacancy of defect in the appointment of
a member.
156F. (1) The Commission shall appoint a
Secretary-General and such other officers as it may
consider necessary for the proper discharge of its functions,
on such terms and conditions as may be determined by the
Commission.
Meetings of the
Commission
Staff of the
Commission
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 199
Expenses
of the
Commission
to be charged
on the
Consolidated
Fund
(2) All members and officers of the Commission
shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning,
and for the purpose of, Chapter IX of the Penal Code
(Chapter 19).
(3) No suit, prosecution or other proceeding shall lie
against any member or officer of the Commission for any
act or thing which in good faith is done or purported to be
done by him in the performance of his duties or the
discharge of his functions, under the Constitution.
156G. The expenses of the Commission shall be
charged on the Consolidated Fund.
156H. In this Chapter, “Government institution”
includes the office of the Secretary to the President, the
office of the Secretary to the Prime Minister, the office of
the Secretary to the Cabinet of Ministers, the offices of the
Ministers appointed under Article 44 or 45, the Judicial
Service Commission, the Constitutional Council, the
Commissions referred to in the Schedule to Article 41B, the
Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration, the
Secretary-General of Parliament, Ministries, Government
Departments, Provincial Councils, local Authorities, Public
Corporations, business or other undertakings vested in the
Government under any written law and Companies
registered or deemed to be registered under the Companies
Act, No. 7 of 2007, in which the Government, a Public
Corporation or Local Authority holds more than fifty per
centum of the shares of that Company.]
Interpretation
200 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
CHAPTER XX
GENERAL
157. Where Parliament by resolution passed by not
less than two-thirds of the whole number of Members of
Parliament (including those not present) voting in its
favour, approves as being essential for the development of
the national economy, any Treaty or Agreement between
the Government of Sri Lanka and the Government of any
foreign State for the promotion and protection of the
investments in Sri Lanka of such foreign State, its nationals,
or of corporations, companies and other associations
incorporated or constituted under its laws, such Treaty or
Agreement shall have the force of law in Sri Lanka and
otherwise than in the interests of national security no
written law shall be enacted or made, and no executive or
administrative action shall be taken, in contravention of
the provisions of such Treaty or Agreement.
171[157A. (1) No person shall, directly or indirectly, in
or outside Sri Lanka, support, espouse, promote, finance,
encourage or advocate the establishment of a separate
State within the territory of Sri Lanka.
(2) No political party or other association or
organization shall have as one of its aims or objects the
establishment of a separate State within the territory of Sri
Lanka.
(3) Any person who acts in contravention of the
provisions of paragraph (1) shall, on conviction by the
Court of Appeal, after trial on indictment and according to
such procedure as may be prescribed by law, –
(a) be subject to civic disability for such period
International
Treaties and
Agreements
Prohibition
against
violation of
territorial
integrity of
Sri Lanka
171 - Inserted by the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 3.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 201
not exceeding seven years as may be
determined by such Court;
(b) forfeit his movable and immovable property
other than such property as is determined by
an order of such Court as being necessary for
the sustenance of such person and his family;
(c) not be entitled to civic rights for such period
not exceeding seven years as may be
determined by such Court; and
(d) if he is a Member of Parliament or a person
in such service or holding such office as is
referred to in paragraph (1) of Article 165,
cease to be such Member or to be in such
service or to hold such office.
(4) Where any political party or other association or
organization has as one of its aims or objects the
establishment of a separate State within the territory of Sri
Lanka, any person may make an application to the
Supreme Court for a declaration that such political party
or other association or organization has as one of its aims
or objects the establishment of a separate State within the
territory of Sri Lanka. The Secretary or other officer of
such political party or other association or organization
shall be made a respondent to such application.
(5) Where the Supreme Court makes a declaration
under paragraph (4) in relation to any political party or
other association or organization, in pursuance of an
application made to it under that paragraph –
(a) that political party or other association or
organization shall be deemed, for all purposes to
be prescribed and any member of such political 
202 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
party or other association or organization,
who is a Member of Parliament shall be deemed
to have vacated his seat in Parliament with
effect from the date of such declaration, and
any nomination paper submitted by such political
party or other association or organization shall
be deemed for all purposes to be invalid;
(b) any person who holds office or is a member
of that political party or other association or
organization, shall be guilty of an offence and
shall, on conviction, by the Court of Appeal
after trial on indictment and according to such
procedure as may be prescribed by law –
(i) be subject to civic disability for such
period not exceeding seven years as may
be determined by such Court;
(ii) forfeit his movable and immovable
property other than such property as is
determined by an order of such Court as
being necessary for the sustenance of
such person and his family;
(iii) not be entitled to civic rights for such
period not exceeding seven years as may
be determined by such Court;
(iv) if he is a Member of Parliament or a
person in such service or holds such
office as is referred to in paragraph (1)
of Article 165, cease to be such Member
or to be in such service or hold such
office.
(6) The execution of any punishment imposed under 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 203
paragraph (3) or sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph (5) shall
not be stayed or suspended pending the determination of
any appeal against such punishment or the conviction in
consequence of which such punishment was imposed.
(7) Every officer or person who was or is
required by, Article 32 or Article 53, Article 61 or Article
107 or Article 165 or Article 169 (12), to take and
subscribe or to make and subscribe an oath or affirmation,
every member of, or person in the service, of a local
authority, Development Council, Pradeshiya Mandalaya,
Gramodaya Mandalaya or Public Corporation and every
Attorney-at-Law shall –
(a) if such officer or person is holding office on
the date of coming into force of this Article,
make and subscribe, or take and subscribe, an
oath or affirmation in the form set out in the
Seventh Schedule, before such person or
body if any, as is referred to in that Article,
within one month of the date on which this
Article comes into force;
(b) if such person or officer is appointed to such
office after the coming into force of this
Article, make and subscribe or take and
subscribe an oath or affirmation, in the form
set out in the Seventh Schedule, before such
person or body, if any, as is referred to in that
Article, within one month of his appointment
to such office.
The provisions of Article 165 and Article 169(12)
shall mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation to, any
person or officer who fails to take and subscribe, or make
and subscribe an oath or affirmation as required by this
paragraph.
204 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(8) (a) Every person who is a Member of Parliament
on the coming into force of this Article shall not be
entitled to sit and vote in Parliament unless he takes and
subscribes or makes and subscribes an oath or affirmation
in the form set out in the Seventh Schedule.
(b) Every person who is elected or nominated as
a Member of Parliament on or after the coming into force
of this Article shall not be entitled to sit and vote in
Parliament unless he takes and subscribes or makes and
subscribes an oath or affirmation in the form set out in the
Seventh Schedule.
9) No person who has taken and subscribed or made
and subscribed an oath or affirmation in the form set out in
the Seventh Schedule shall, notwithstanding any provision
to the contrary in the Constitution, be required to take and
subscribe or make and subscribe any other oath or
affirmation required to be taken and subscribed or made
and subscribed under the Constitution.
(10) Parliament may, by resolution, determine such
other categories of persons or officers to whom the
provisions of paragraph (7) shall apply and thereupon, the
provisions of such paragraph shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to, and in relation to, officers or persons of that
category.
(11) The jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal in
respect of its powers under this Article shall be exercised
in the manner provided in sub-paragraph (iv) of the
proviso to paragraph (2) of Article 146.
(12) In this Article, “civic rights” means –
(a) the right to obtain a passport;
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 205
(b) the right to sit for any public examination;
(c) the right to own any immovable property;
(d) the right to engage in any trade or profession
which requires a licence, registration or other
authorization, by or under any written law.]
158. Where any person is empowered under the
provisions of the Constitution to delegate any power, duty
or function to any other person, such person delegating
such power, duty or function may, notwithstanding such
delegation, exercise, perform or discharge such power, duty
or function and may at any time revoke such delegation.
In this Article, “person” includes any body of persons
or any authority.
159. Where the Speaker is unable to discharge the
functions of his office, the powers, duties and functions
conferred or imposed on, or assigned to, the Speaker by
any Provision of the Constitution, other than by Articles 31
(4), 37, 38(2)(b), 39(2) and 40, may be exercised,
performed or discharged by the Deputy Speaker.
Delegation
Deputy Speaker
to act for
Speaker
206 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
CHAPTER XXI
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
160. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other provision of the Constitution, the person holding the
office of President immediately before the commencement
of the Constitution shall be the first President under the
Constitution and shall be deemed for all purposes to have
been elected as the President of the Republic, and 172[shall,
subject to the provisions of Article 31, hold office] for a
period of six years from February 4, 1978.
The President shall, notwithstanding the provisions of
Article 32, be deemed to have assumed office immediately
upon the commencement of the Constitution and shall be
entitled thereupon to exercise, perform and discharge all
the powers, duties and functions conferred or imposed on,
or assigned to, the President by the Constitution or
otherwise. The President shall, as soon as possible
thereafter at a sitting of Parliament, take and subscribe the
oath or make and subscribe the affirmation set out in the
Fourth Schedule.
161. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other provision of the Constitution –
(a) the first Parliament shall consist, of one
hundred and sixty-eight members and subject
to the succeeding provisions of this Article,
all persons who immediately before the
commencement of the Constitution were
members of the National State Assembly
shall be deemed to have been elected as
Members of Parliament;
First
President
First
Parliament
172 - Substituted by the Third Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4. 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 207
(b) (i) if the election, as a Member of the
National State Assembly, of a person
deemed to have been elected to the
first Parliamentis declared void under
the law for the time being in force and
no other person is determined to have
been duly returned or elected, the seat
of such Member shall be vacant, and
an election to the electoral district
as existing immediately prior to the
commencement of the Constitution,
shall be held in accordance with the
law relating to elections to the National
State Assembly in force immediately
before the commencement of the
Constitution and on the basis of the
register of electors applicable to such
electoral district which was operative
on the day immediately preceding the
commencement of the Constitution;
(ii) the law applicable to election petitions
in relation to an election held as provided
in sub-paragraph (i) shall be the law in
force upon the commencement of the
Constitution and in the event of such
an election being declared void the
provisions of sub-paragraph (i) shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply;
(c) if the election as a Member of the National
State Assembly of a person who is deemed to
have been elected to the first Parliament is
declared void or undue and any other person
is determined to have been duly returned or
elected such other person shall be deemed to
have been duly elected as a Member of the
first Parliament;
208 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(d) (i) where immediately before the
commencement of Constitution there
was a vacancy in the membership of
the National State Assembly or where
a vacancy in the membership of the
first Parliament occurs otherwise than
under the provisions of paragraph (b)
of this Article, such vacancy shall be
filled in the manner provided in
sub-paragraph (iii) hereof;
 173[(ii) Where during the duration of the First
Parliament, a Member ceases, by
resignation, expulsion or otherwise, to
be a member of the recognized
political party to which he belonged
upon or after the commencement of the
Constitution, the Secretary of such
party shall, within two weeks of the
date on which such Member so ceased to
be a member of such party, communicate,
in writing to the Secretary-General of
Parliament, the fact and date thereof.
The Secretary-General shall, upon
receipt of such communication, submit
it to the Speaker.
Where a Member ceases to be a
member of the recognized political
party to which he belonged by reason
of being expelled from such party, he
shall be entitled to apply, within one
month of the date of such expulsion by
petition in writing, to the Supreme
Court for a determination that such
173 - Substituted by the Second Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2. 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 209
expulsion was invalid. In the event of
any such application being made, the
Registrar of the Supreme Court shall
forthwith inform the Secretary-General
of Parliament in writing, of such
application, every such application
shall be heard and determined by not
less than three Judges of the Supreme
Court who shall, within two months of
the making of such application,
determine whether such expulsion was
valid or not.
The Speaker shall, on receiving in the
aforesaid manner, a communication
alleging that a Member has ceased
to be a member of the recognized
political party to which such Member
belonged, appoint a Select Committee
consisting of not less than five
Members of Parliament (one of whom
shall be nominated as Chairman
thereof) to inquire into, and report to
Parliament on, the circumstances in
which such Member is alleged to have
resigned from, or to have been
expelled from, or to have otherwise
ceased to be a member of, such party,
and the reasons therefor:

Provided, however, that where
such communication alleges that a
Member has ceased to be a member of
the recognized political party to which
he belonged by reason of his being
expelled therefrom, no Select
Committee shall be appointed as 
210 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
aforesaid until after the expiration of a
period of one month from the date of
such alleged expulsion, and in any case
where such Member has applied to the
Supreme Court for a determination that
such expulsion was invalid, unless and
until the Supreme Court has
determined that such expulsion was
valid.
The provisions of the Parliament
(Powers and Privileges) Act shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply in relation to
proceedings before, and to the
privileges, immunities and powers of,
a Select Committee appointed as
aforesaid and every such Select
Committee shall be deemed, for the
purposes of that Act, to be duly
authorized by an order of Parliament to
send for persons, papers and records.
After consideration of the report made
by a Select Committee appointed
as aforesaid, Parliament may, by
resolution passed by not less than
eighty-five Members voting in its
favour, resolve that the Member to
whom such report relates, shall cease
to be a Member of Parliament. The
Speaker shall endorse on every
resolution so passed, a certificate in the
following form:–
“This resolution has been passed by
the majority required by Article 161
(d)(ii) of the Constitution”.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 211
The seat of such Member shall, with
effect from the date of such certificate,
become vacant.
Every such certificate shall be conclusive
for all purposes and shall not be
questioned in any court, and no court
or tribunal shall inquire into,
pronounce upon or in any manner
call in question, the validity of the
resolution on which such certificate is
endorsed on any ground whatsoever.]
(iii) Where a vacancy as is referred to
in sub-paragraph (i) or (ii) has
occurred, the Secretary-General of
Parliament shall forthwith inform the
Commissioner of Elections of such
vacancy. The Commissioner of
Elections shall thereupon require the
Secretary of the political party to
which such Member belonged to
nominate a member of such party 174[to
fill such vacancy. A nomination made
by the Secretary of such political
party under this sub-paragraph shall be
accompanied by an oath or affirmation,
as the case may be, in the form set out
in the Seventh Schedule, taken and
subscribed or made and subscribed,
as the case may be, by the person
nominated to fill such vacancy Upon
the receipt of such nomination,
accompanied by such oath or
affirmation the Commissioner] shall
174 - Substituted by the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4(1). 
212 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
declare such person to be the Member
for the electoral district in respect of
which the vacancy occurred:
175[Provided that where the
Secretary 5of such political party fails
to nominate a member of such political
party to fill such vacancy under
the preceding provisions of this
sub-paragraph 176[within thirty days of
6his being required to do so and in
the aforesaid manner] or where the
Secretary of a political party had been
required, before the coming into force
of this proviso, to nominate a member
of such political party to fill any such
vacancy under such provisions and
such Secretary fails, within thirty days
of the coming into force of this
proviso, to nominate a member of such
political party to fill such 177[vacancy,
or where such political party is deemed
to be prescribed under Article 157A,
then, the Commissioner of Elections]
shall forthwith so inform the
President, who shall, within thirty days
of the receipt by him of such
information, by Notice published in
the Gazette order the Commissioner of
Elections to hold an election for the
electoral district in respect of which
such vacancy has occurred. The
Commissioner of Elections shall
thereupon hold an election, in
175 - Inserted by the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2(b).
176 - Substituted by the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution, Sec. 4(2)(a).
177 - Substituted by the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4(2)(b).
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 213
accordance with Part I and Parts IV to
VI (both inclusive) of the Ceylon
(Parliamentary Elections) Order in
Council, 1946, for such electoral as
existed immediately preceding the
Constitution and on the basis of such
part of the register, prepared under the
Registration of Electoral Act, No. 44 of
1980, and in operation, as corresponds to
such electoral district. The aforesaid
parts of the Ceylon (Parliamentary
Elections) Order in Council, 1946,
shall, for the purposes of such election
and notwithstanding the repeal of such
Order in Council, be deemed to be
in force and shall, mutatis mutandis
and except as otherwise expressly
provided in the Constitution, apply to
such election.
The law applicable to election petitions
in relation to such electoral district
shall be the aforesaid parts of such
Order in Council as applied aforesaid
and in the event of such election being
declared void and no other person is
determined to have been duly returned
or elected, the election to fill such
vacancy shall be held in accordance
with the provisions of this proviso.]
178[(iv) Where a Member nominated or elected
to fill any such vacancy as is referred
to in sub-paragraph (i) or
sub-paragraph (ii), being a Member
who has taken and subscribed or made
178 - Inserted by the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4(3). 
214 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
and subscribed an oath or affirmation
in the form set out in the Seventh
Schedule, directly or indirectly, in or
outside Sri Lanka, supports, espouses,
promotes, finances, encourages or
advocates the establishment of a
separate State within the territory of
Sri Lanka, any person may make an
application to the Court of Appeal for
a declaration that such member has
directly or indirectly, in or outside Sri
Lanka, supported, espoused, promoted,
financed, encouraged or advocated the
establishment of a separate State within
the territory of Sri Lanka.
If the Court of Appeal makes, on such
application, a declaration that such
Member has directly or indirectly, in or
outside Sri Lanka, supported, espoused,
promoted, financed, encouraged or
advocated the establishment of a
separate State within the territory of
Sri Lanka, the seat of such Member
shall be deemed to be vacant with
effect from the date of such declaration
and such Member shall be disqualified
from sitting and voting in Parliament
and from being elected or nominated
to Parliament for a period of seven
years from the date of such declaration. The vacancy occurring in the
membership of Parliament by reason
of such declaration shall be filled in
the manner provided in paragraph (iii).
The jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal
in respect of its powers under this 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 215
sub-paragraph shall be exercised in the
manner provided in sub-paragraph (iv)
of the proviso to paragraph (2) of
Article 146.]
179[(e) Unless sooner dissolved, the First
Parliament shall continue until August 4,
1989 and no longer and shall thereupon
stand dissolved, and the provisions of
Article 70(5)(b) shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply.]
162. (1) The provisions of Article 98, other than
paragraphs (8) and (9) thereof, and Article 99 shall not
come into operation until the General Election held upon
the dissolution of the first Parliament.
(2) If at the time of such dissolution the notification
of electoral districts has not been proclaimed as required
by Article 97, the electoral districts for the first General
Election to be held upon the dissolution of the first
Parliament, and the number of Members which each such
district shall be entitled to return by virtue of the
provisions of paragraph (4) of Article 96, shall be as set
out in the Sixth Schedule and accordingly, registers of
electors shall be prepared and certified for each such
electoral district, and unless Parliament otherwise
provides, such registers shall be prepared on the basis of
the register of electors in force immediately before the
commencement of the Constitution.
163. All Judges of the Supreme Court and the
High Courts established by the Administration of Justice
Law, No.44 of 1973, holding office on the day immediately
before the commencement of the Constitution shall, on the
commencement of the Constitution, cease to hold office.
Application
of
certain
provisions
179 - Substituted by the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 2.
Judges of
Supreme
Court and
High Court
to cease to
hold office 
216 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
164. Subject to the provisions of Article 163 every
person who immediately before the commencement of the
Constitution -
(a) held office in any court or tribunal deemed,
by virtue of the provisions of paragraph (2) of
Article 105, to be a court or tribunal created
and established by Parliament,
(b) was in the service of the Republic, any local
authority or any Public Corporation,
(c) held office in any local authority or Public Corporation, or
(d) held any appointment under any existing
written law,
shall continue in such service or hold such office or
appointment under the same terms and conditions.
165. (1) Every public officer, judicial officer and
every other person as is required by the Constitution to
take an oath or make an affirmation on entering upon the
duties of his office, every holder of an office required
under the existing law to take an official oath and every
person in the service of every local authority and of every
Public Corporation shall take and subscribe the oath or
make and subscribe the affirmation set out in the Fourth
Schedule. Any such public officer, judicial officer, person
or holder of an office failing to take and subscribe
such oath or make and subscribe such affirmation after
the commencement of the Constitution on or before such
date as may be prescribed by the Prime Minister by Order
published in the Gazette shall cease to be in service or
hold office.
(2) The Minister in charge of the subject of Public
Oath or
affirmation
to be taken
or made by
public officers
and others
Continuation
in office of
Judges, public
officers and
others
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 217
Administration may, in his sole discretion, permit any
public officer, judicial officer, person or holder of an
office referred to in paragraph (1) of this Article, to take
the oath or make the affirmation referred to in that
paragraph after the prescribed date if he is satisfied that the
failure to take the oath or make the affirmation within the
time prescribed was occasioned by illness or some other
unavoidable cause. On his taking such oath or making such
affirmation, he shall continue in service or hold office as if
he had taken such oath or made such affirmation within the
time prescribed under paragraph (1) of this Article.
(3) The President may by Proclamation –
(a) exclude the application of the provisions of
paragraph (1) of this Article to any category
of public officers,
(b) prescribe the persons or categories of persons
who may administer such oath or affirmation
in addition to the persons who are empowered
under the existing law to administer oaths or
affirmations.
166. Unless Parliament otherwise provides, the
Republic of Sri Lanka shall continue to possess and
exercise all powers, privileges, immunities and rights
whatsoever possessed, exercised or exercisable immediately
prior to the commencement of the Constitution.
167. All rights and all duties or obligations, however
arising, of the Government of Sri Lanka and subsisting
immediately prior to the commencement of the Constitution
shall be rights, duties and obligations of the Government
of the Republic of Sri Lanka under the Constitution.
Powers,
privileges,
immunities
and rights
of the
Republic
Rights,
duties and
obligations
of the
Republic
218 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
168. (1) Unless Parliament otherwise provides,
all laws, written laws and unwritten laws, in force
immediately before the commencement of the Constitution,
shall, mutatis mutandis and except as otherwise expressly
provided in the Constitution, continue in force.
(2) Save as otherwise provided in the Constitution,
existing laws, written laws and unwritten laws are not and
shall not in any manner be deemed to be provisions of the
Constitution.
(3) Wherever the Constitution provides that any law,
written law or unwritten law or any provision of the
Constitution shall continue in force until or unless
Parliament otherwise provides, any law enacted by
Parliament so providing may be passed by a majority of the
Member present and voting.
(4) Whenever the Constitution provides that any
provision of any existing written law shall continue in force
until or unless Parliament otherwise provides and the
existing written law referred to consists of subordinate
legislation, the provision that such existing written law shall
continue in force until or unless Parliament otherwise
provides shall not in any manner be deemed to derogate
from the power of the person or body on whom the power to
make and when made, to amend, vary, rescind or revoke
such subordinate legislation is conferred, to exercise the
power so conferred until or unless Parliament otherwise
provides.
(5) Unless the Constitution otherwise provides, the
past operation of any law in force prior to the
commencement of the Constitution or anything duly done or
suffered or any offence committed or any right, liberty,
obligation or penalty acquired or incurred under any law in
Past
operation
of laws,
previous acts,
offences
and pending
action, & c.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 219
force prior to the commencement of the Constitution shall
not in any manner be affected or be deemed to be affected
by the Constitution coming into force.
(6) All actions, prosecutions, proceedings, matters or
things, including proceedings of Commissions appointed
or established by or under any existing written law, pending or uncompleted on the commencement of the Constitution shall, subject to the provisions of the Constitution and
mutatis mutandis, be deemed to continue and may be
carried on and completed after the commencement of the
Constitution.
169. Unless Parliament otherwise provides –
(1) any provisions of the Administration of
Justice Law, No. 44 of 1973, which are
inconsistent with the provisions of the
Constitution, shall, to the extent of such
inconsistency, be deemed to be repealed;
(2) the Supreme Court established by the
Administration of Justice Law, No. 44 of
1973, shall, on the commencement of the
Constitution, cease to exist and accordingly
the provisions of that Law relating to the
establishment of the said Supreme Court, shall
be deemed to have been repealed. Unless
otherwise provided in the Constitution, every
reference in any existing written law to the
Supreme Court shall be deemed to be a
reference to the Court of Appeal;
(3) all appellate proceedings including
proceedings by way of revision, case stated
and restitutio in integrum pending in the
Supreme Court established under the
Administration of Justice Law, No. 44 of
Provisions
relating to
judiciary
220 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
1973, on the day preceding the commencement
of the Constitution, shall stand removed to the
Court of Appeal and the Court of Appeal
shall have jurisdiction to take cognizance of
and to hear and determine the same; and the
judgements and orders of the Supreme Court
aforesaid delivered or made before the
commencement of the Constitution in
appellate proceedings shall have the same
force and effect as if they had been delivered
or made by the Court of Appeal;
(4) all original proceedings by way of
applications for the issue of high prerogative
Writs and applications for any other relief
pending in the Supreme Court as well as all
applications for injunctions pending in the
High Court established under the
Administration of Justice Law, No. 44 of
1973, on the date immediately preceding the
commencement of the Constitution shall
stand removed to the Court of Appeal and
such Court shall have jurisdiction to take
cognizance of, hear and determine or to
continue and complete the same, and the
judgments and orders of the Supreme Court
established under the Administration of
Justice Law, No. 44 of 1973, delivered or
made before the commencement of the
Constitution in original proceedings shall
have the same force and effect as if they had
been delivered or made by the Court of
Appeal:
Provided that any proceedings in
relation to any alleged breach of privileges of 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 221
Parliament pending in the Supreme Court shall
stand removed to the Supreme Court created
and established by the Constitution;
(5) no appeal shall lie from any judgement, order
or decree of the Supreme Court established
under the Administration of Justice Law, No.
44 of 1973, to the Supreme Court created and
established under the Constitution but such
judgement, order or decree, as the case may
be, shall be final as between the parties to the
action, application or other proceeding in
which such judgement, order or decree was
made:
Provided that it shall be competent for the
Court of Appeal and all officers of such Court
to take all such steps as may be necessary,
including the entering of decrees if not already
entered and taxation and recovery of costs so
as to ensure that such judgements, orders and
decrees are completely and effectively
complied with, as if they had been delivered or
made by the Court of Appeal created and
established by the Constitution;
(6) the several High Courts established under
Chapter I of the Administration of Justice
Law, No. 44 of 1973, shall be deemed for all
purposes to constitute a single court created
and established by Parliament called the High
Court of the Republic of Sri Lanka having jurisdiction throughout the Republic of Sri
Lanka to be exercised in the several Zones in
accordance with the law for the time being in
force. Accordingly, subject to the provisions
of the Constitution, and of any existing written 
222 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
law, all provisions relating to High Courts
contained in such Law shall, mutatis
mutandis, apply to the High Court of the
Republic of Sri Lanka;
(7) all criminal and admiralty cases,
proceedings or matters, other than applications
for injunctions, pending in the High Courts
established under the Administration of
Justice Law, No. 44 of 1973, on the day
preceding the commencement of the
Constitution shall stand removed to the said
High Court of the Republic of Sri Lanka and
such Court shall have jurisdiction to take
cognizance of, hear and determine or to
continue and complete the same, and the
judgments and orders of the aforesaid High
Courts delivered or made before the
commencement of the Constitution shall
have the same force and effect as if they had
been delivered or made by the High Court of
the Republic of Sri Lanka;
(8) the President of the Court of Appeal shall
from time to time as he may deem expedient
nominate the Judges of the High Court of
the Republic of Sri Lanka to exercise the
jurisdiction of the High Court in such zones
as he may determine and the provisions of
Chapter II of the Administration of Justice
Law, No. 44 of 1973, shall mutatis
mutandis, apply to the hearing and disposal
of all proceedings pending in or hereafter
instituted in the High Court;
(9) all indictments filed hereafter in the High
Court of the Republic of Sri Lanka shall be
in the name of the Republic of Sri Lanka 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 223
and shall be signed by the Attorney-General
or any person authorized under section 189 of
the Administration of Justice Law, No. 44 of
1973;
(10) all election petition proceedings relating to the
election of any person to the membership of
the National State Assembly pending in the
High Courts established under the
Administration of Justice Law, No. 44 of
1973, on the day preceding the commencement
of the Constitution shall stand removed to the
Court of Appeal and the Court of Appeal shall
have the same jurisdiction to take cognizance
of, hear and determine or to continue and
complete the same, and the judgements and
orders of the Supreme Court established by
the Administration of Justice Law, No. 44 of
1973, and of the High Courts aforesaid
delivered or made before the commencement
of the Constitution in such election petition
proceedings shall have the same force and
effect as if they had been delivered or made
by the Supreme Court and the Court of
Appeal established by the Constitution, as the
case may be. The President of the Court of
Appeal is hereby vested with the power to
nominate a Judge of the Court of Appeal to
hear and determine any election petition in
respect of which the Court of Appeal is vested
with jurisdiction by the Constitution;
(11) all Attorneys-at-Law admitted and
enrolled or deemed to have been admitted and
enrolled as Attorneys-at-Law under the
provisions of the Administration of Justice
Law, No. 44 of 1973, shall subject to the 
224 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
provisions of the Constitution be deemed to
have been admitted and enrolled as
Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court
created and established by the Constitution;
(12) after the date fixed by the Minister in charge
of the subject of Justice, by Order published
in the Gazette, no Attorney-at-Law shall be
entitled to represent any party to a proceeding
or be given the right of audience in any court,
tribunal or other institution until or unless he
has taken and subscribed the oath or made
and subscribed the affirmation set out in the
Fourth Schedule, before a Judge of the
Supreme Court, Court of Appeal, High Court
or any other judicial officer as defined in
Article 114; and it shall be the duty of any
such Judge or judicial officer, as the case
may be, to forward such oath or affirmation
so taken and subscribed or made and
subscribed to the Registrar of the Supreme
Court who shall cause the same to be entered
in the rolls of such Court. Such entry shall be
the only proof that such Attorney-at-Law has
taken and subscribed or made and subscribed
such oath or affirmation;
(13) the provisions of the Administration of
Justice Law, No. 44 of 1973, relating to the
Attorney-General, the legal profession, State
Attorneys and State Counsel, shall be deemed
for all purposes to be in operation, and every
reference to the Supreme Court in sections 33
to 36 of the Administration of Justice Law,
No. 44 of 1973, and in the rules and
regulations relating thereto shall be deemed
to be a reference to the Supreme Court
established by the Constitution;
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 225
(14) if any matter or question shall arise with
regard to any procedure or practice to be
followed in any court in consequence of the
coming into operation of the Constitution,
not provided for in the Constitution or any
written law, the Chief Justice shall have the
power to give such directions as he may
consider necessary to prevent injustice or as
the justice of the case may require and to
ensure that the provisions of Chapters XV
and XVI of the Constitution are given full
and complete effect;
(15) (i) any reference in section 2 of the Special
Presidential Commissions of Inquiry
Law, No. 7 of 1978, to the Supreme
Court shall be deemed to be a reference to
the Supreme Court established by the
Constitution;
(ii) where any person has been appointed as
a member of a Special Presidential
Commission of Inquiry established under
the Special Presidential Commission of
Inquiry Law, No. 7 of 1978, then, such
person shall not withstanding the
provisions of the Constitution, continue
to be such member and shall be deemed for
the purposes of Article 81(1) to be a
Judge of a Court referred to therein
unless he resigns, or refuses or becomes
unable to act, or is discharged by the
President from the performance of his
duties as such member in accordance
with the provisions of the Special Presidential Commissions of Inquiry Law,
No. 7 of 1978;
226 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(iii) any such member specified in the
Warrant establishing such Special
Presidential Commission of Inquiry as
Chairman, shall, subject to the
provisions of sub-paragraph (ii) of
this paragraph, continue to be the
Chairman of such Special Presidential
Commission of Inquiry;
(16) (i) any breach of the privileges of the
National State Assembly functioning
immediately prior to the commencement
of the Constitution, shall be deemed
to be a breach of the privileges of
Parliament and accordingly, Parliament
and the Supreme Court, shall have the
power to take cognizance of and
punish any person for such breach of
privileges of Parliament;
(ii) where prior to the
commencement of the Constitution, any
step required or authorized by the
Parliament (Powers and Privileges) Act
has been taken in respect of, or in
relation to, any act or omission alleged
to constitute such a breach of the
privileges of Parliament as is referred
to in sub-paragraph (i) of this
paragraph, such step shall be deemed
to have been validly taken and any
further steps as are required or
authorized under such Act, may be
taken, in respect of, or in relation to,
such alleged breach of the privileges of
Parliament, as if the act or omission
alleged to constitute such breach of 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 227
privileges of Parliament had been
committed or had occurred after the
commencement of the Constitution.
180[169A. (1) Every –
(a) Queen’s Counsel appointed prior to the
coming into force of the Constitution; and
(b) Senior Attorney-at-Law appointed by the
President after the coming into force of the
Constitution,
shall, from the date on which this Article comes into
force, be called and known also as President’s Counsel
and shall continue to enjoy all such privileges as were
hitherto enjoyed by a Queen’s Counsel.
(2) Every rule made under Article 136 relating to the
appointment of Senior Attorneys-at-Law shall, from the
date on which this Article comes into force, be deemed to
be rescinded.
(3) Every reference in any written law to “Senior
Attorney-at-Law” shall, from the date on which this
Article comes into force, be deemed to include a
reference to “President’s Counsel.”]
Provision
relating to
Queen's
Counsel and
Senior
Attorneysat-Law
180 - Inserted by the Eighth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 4.
228 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
CHAPTER XXII
INTERPRETATION
170. In the Constitution –
“civic disability” shall have the same meaning as
in the Special Presidential Commissions of
Inquiry Law, No. 7 of 1978, as on the
commencement of the Constitution;
“commencement of the Constitution” means the date
appointed by the Proclamation made under
Article 172;
“conclusion of the General Election” means the time
at which Members of Parliament for all the
electoral districts in respect of which a poll
has been taken on the date or dates specified
in the Proclamation made under Article 70(5)
have been declared elected by the respective
returning officers, or when on the results declared more than half the total membership of
Parliament consists of Members belonging to any
single recognized political party or independent
group, whichever event occurs earlier;
“existing law” and “existing written law” mean any
law and written law, respectively, in force immediately before the commencement of the
Constitution which under the Constitution
continue in force;
“judicial officer”, 181[other than in Article 111M],
means any person who holds office as -
181 - Substituted by the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 22(1).
Interpretation
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 229
(a) a Judge of the Supreme Court or a Judge
of the Court of Appeal;
(b) any Judge of the High Court or any Judge,
presiding officer or member of any other
Court of First Instance, tribunal or institution
created and established for the administration
of Justice or for the adjudication of any
labour or other dispute but does not include a
person who performs arbitral functions or a
public officer whose principal duty or duties
is or are not the performance of functions of
a judicial nature.
No court or tribunal or institution shall have
jurisdiction to determine the question
whether a person is a judicial officer within
the meaning of the Constitution but such
question shall be determined by the Judicial
Service Commission whose decision thereon
shall be final and conclusive.
No act of such person or proceeding held before
such person, prior to such determination, shall
be, deemed to be invalid by reason of such
determination;
“law” means any Act of Parliament and any law
enacted by any legislature at any time prior
to the commencement of the Constitution
and includes an Order in Council;
“local authority” means any Municipal Council,
Urban Council, Town Council or Village
Council and includes any Authority created
and established by or under any law to
exercise, perform and discharge powers, 
230 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
duties and functions corresponding to or
similar to the powers, duties and functions
exercised, performed and discharged by any
such Council;
“public corporation” means any corporation, board
or other body which was or is established
by or under any written law other than the
Companies Ordinance, with funds or capital
wholly or partly provided by the
Government by way of grant, loan or
otherwise;
182[“public officer” means a person who holds any
paid office under the Republic, other than a
judicial officer but does not include –
(a) the President;
(b) the Prime Minister;
(c) the Speaker;
(d) a Minister appointed under Article 44
or 45;
(e) a Deputy Minister appointed under
Article 46;
(f) a Member of Parliament;
(g) a member of the Constitutional
Council;
(h) a member of the Judicial Service
Commission;
(i) the Chairman or a member of any
Commission referred to in Article 41B;
(j) the Secretary-General of Parliament;
(k) a member of the staff of the SecretaryGeneral of Parliament;
(l) a member of the University Grants
Commission;
182 - Substituted by the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 29. 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 231
(m) a member of the Official Languages
Commission;
(n) the Auditor -General; and
(o) The Governor of the Central Bank of Sri
Lanka.]
“recognized political party” means unless Parliament
otherwise provides, every political party
which is treated as a recognized political
party under the Ceylon (Parliamentary
Elections) Order in Council, 1946;
“territorial waters” includes the territorial sea and the
historic waters of Sri Lanka;
“written law” means any law and subordinate
legislation 183[and includes statutes made by a
Provincial Council, Orders], Proclamations,
Rules, By-laws and Regulations made or
issued by any body or person having power
or authority under any law to make or issue
the same.
183 - Substituted by the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 6.
232 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
CHAPTER XXIII
REPEAL
171. The Constitution adopted and enacted on the
22nd day of May, 1972, is hereby repealed.
Repeal
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 233
CHAPTER XXIV
PROMULGATION OF THE CONSTITUTION
172. (1) The provisions of Chapter I to Chapter
XXIII shall come into force on the day appointed by the
President by Proclamation.
(2) Parliament shall meet on the day so appointed
and the President may, in such Proclamation, specify the
time at which Parliament shall so meet.
Devo Vassatukalena
sassasampattihetu ca
phito bhavatu loko ca
raja bhavatu dhammiko
SIDDHIRASTU
Promulgation of
the Constitution
234 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
* Other Consequential Amendments in the Twenty
first Amendment to the Constitution
[30. (1) (a) The ninth Parliament in existence on
the day proceeding the date which this Act comes into
operation. Shall, unless dissolved earlier continue to
function until August 19, 2025 and shall thereafter stand
dissolved.
(b) The persons holding office respectively as
the President and the Prime Minister on the day presiding
the date on which this Act comes into operation, shall
continue to hold office after such date subject to the
provisions of the Constitution.
(2) Every person holding office on the day preceding
the date on which this Act comes into operation, as-
(a) the Chief Justice;
(b) the Judges of the Supreme Court;
(c) the members of the Judicial Service
Commission;
(d) the President of the Court of Appeal;
(e) the Judges of the Court of Appeal;
(f) the Attorney-General;
(g) Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka;
(h) the Auditor-General;
(i) the Inspector-General of Police;
(j) the Parliamentary Commissioner for
Administration (Ombudsman);
(k) the Secretary-General of Parliament;
(l) the judges of the High Court; or
(m) the judicial officers, scheduled public
* - The section numbers indicated in this section are as per the numbers assigned
 to the Twenty First Amendment to the Constitution.
Transitional
provisions
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 235
Shall continue to hold such office and shall, subject
to paragraph (3) of Article 41C, continue to exercise,
perform and discharge the powers, duties and functions of
that office, under the same terms and conditions.
(3) Every person holding office on the day preceding
the date on which this Act comes into operations, as a
member of the Parliamentary Council shall cease to hold
office as a member of the Parliamentary Council with
effect from the date on which this Act into operations.
(4) Every person holding office on the day preceding
the date on which this Act comes into operation, as the
Chairman or a member of -
(a) the Election Commission;
(b) the Public Service Commission;
(c) the National Police Commission;
(d) the Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka;
(e) the Commission to Investigate Allegations of
Bribery or Corruption;
(f) the Finance Commission; and
(g) the Delimitation Commission,
Shall cease to hold such office with effect from the date
on which this Act comes into operation:
Provided however, a person holding office on
the day preceding the date on which this Act comes into
operation, as a Chairman or a member of any such
Commission referred to above may continue to exercise
and discharge powers and functions of their respective
Commissions are constituted in accordance with Chapter
VII A of the Constitution.
(5) All matters relating to -
236 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(a) the appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary
control and dismissal of police officers; and
(b) appeals by police officers to the Public
Service Commission,
pending before Public Service Commission on the day
preceding the date on which this Act comes into operations,
shall with effect from that date, stand transferred to the
National Police Commission established by Article 155A
and shall be determined by the National Police Commission
accordingly.
(6) All matters relating to the appointment,
promotion, transfer, disciplinary control and dismissal
of members of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service and
pending before the Public Service Commission on the day
preceding the date on which this Act comes in to operation,
shall, with effect from that date, stand transferred to the
Audit Service Commission established by Article 153A
and shall be determined by the Audit Service Commission
accordingly.
31. For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared
that -
(a) where there is a requirement in any written
law to obtain the recommendation or approval
of the Parliamentary Council, on the day
preceding the date on which this Act comes
into operation, the reference to the Parliamentary
Council shall be read and constructed as a
reference to the Constitutional Council with
effect from the date on which this Act comes
into operation; and
(b) any Member of the ninth Parliament in existence
on the day preceding the date on which this
Avoidance
of doubt
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 237
Act comes into operation, who is subject to
the disqualification specified in item (xiii) of
sub paragraph (d) of paragraph (1) of Article
91 of the Constitution shall not be qualified to
sit and vote in Parliament with effect from the
date on which this Act comes into operation.] 
238 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
FIRST SCHEDULE
ARTICLE 5
Names of Administrative Districts
1 Colombo
2 Gampaha
3 Kalutara
4 Kandy
5 Matale
6 Nuwara - Eliya
7 Galle
8 Matara
9 Hambantota
10. Jaffna
184 [11 Kilinochchi]
12 Mannar
13 Vavuniya
14 Mullaitivu
15 Batticaloa
16 Ampara
17 Trincomalee
18 Kurunegala
19 Puttalam
20 Anuradhapura
21 Polonnaruwa
22 Badulla
23 Moneragala
24 Ratnapura
25 Kegalle
184 - Inserted by the Seventh Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 5(b). 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 239
SECOND SCHEDULE
ARTICLE 6
THE NATIONAL FLAG
240 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 241
THIRD SCHEDULE
ARTICLE 7
Words and Music of the National Anthem
242 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 243
244 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 245
FOURTH SCHEDULE
ARTICLE 32, 53, 61, 107, 165
"I……………………………..…………………………………… do
solemnly declare and affirm
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––– that I will faithfully perform the duties
 swear
and discharge the functions of the office of ……………………………….
in accordance with the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and the law, and that I will be faithful to the Republic of Sri
Lanka and that I will to the best of my ability uphold and defend the
Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.”
246 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
FIFTH SCHEDULE
ARTICLE 111 M
Clerks
185[Deputy Fiscals]
Interpreters
Stenographers
Typists
Binders
185 - Substituted by the Eleventh Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 7. 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 247
SIXTH SCHEDULE
ARTICLE 162(2)
Colombo City and Dehiwela-Mount Lavinia-(Municipal Limits) ............ 1 Member
Colombo District (excluding Colombo City and Dehiwela-Mount Lavinia) ......... 2 Members
Kalutara District .......................................................................................... 1 Member
Kandy District……… ................................................................................. 2 Members
Matale District……….................................................................................. 1 Member
Nuwara-Eliya District……… ...................................................................... 1 Member
Galle District ................................................................................................2 Members
Matara District............................................................................................. 1 Member
Hambantota District……… ........................................................................ 1 Member
Jaffna District .............................................................................................. 3 Members
Mannar and Vavuniya Districts .................................................................. 1 Member
Batticaloa District........................................................................................ 1 Member
Trincomalee District ................................................................................... 1 Member
Ampara District .......................................................................................... 2 Members
Kurunegala District .................................................................................... 3 Members
Puttalam District......................................................................................... 1 Member
Anuradhapura District ................................................................................ 3 Members
Polonnaruwa District................................................................................... 1 Member
Badulla District ........................................................................................... 3 Members
Moneragala District..................................................................................... 1 Member
Kegalle District ........................................................................................... 2 Members
Ratnapura District ....................................................................................... 2 Members
“District” means the Administrative District established under the
Administrative Districts Act (Chapter 392) having the limits specified there
under as on July 21, 1977.
248 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
186[SEVENTH SCHEDULE
ARTICLE 157A AND ARTICLE 161(d) (iii)
 do solemnly declare and affirm
"I,…………...........................……………––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 swear
that I will uphold and defend the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and that I will not, directly or indirectly, in or outside
Sri Lanka, support, espouse, promote, finance, encourage or advocate the
establishment of a separate State within the territory of Sri Lanka.”]
186 - Inserted by the Sixth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 5.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 249

187[EIGHTH SCHEDULE
[Article 154A]
Provinces
Western
North-Western
Uva
Sabaragamuwa
Central
Eastern
Southern
North-Central
Northern ]
187 - Inserted by the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 7. 
250 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
188[ NINTH SCHEDULE
LIST I
(Provincial Council List)
1. Police and Public order.– Public order and the exercise of police
powers, to the extent set out in Appendix I, within the Province, but not
including National Defence, National Security and the use of any armed
forces or any other forces under the control of the Government of Sri Lanka
in aid of the civil power and not including the city of Colombo, Sri
Jayewardenepura, Kotte, and their environs the limits of which shall be
specified by the President by Order published in the Gazette.
2. Planning– Implementation of provincial economic plans.
3. Education and Educational Services.– Education to the extent set out
in Appendix III.
4. Local Government –
4:1 Local authorities for the purpose of Local Government
and village administration, such as Municipal Councils, Urban
Councils and Pradeshiya Sabhas, except that, the constitution,
form and structure of local authorities shall be determined by
law;
4:2 Supervision of the administration of Local Authorities
established by law, including the power of dissolution (subject
to such quasi-judicial inquiries into the grounds for dissolution
and legal remedies in respect thereof, as may be provided by
law and subject to provisions relating to audit as may be provided by law);
4:3 Local Authorities will have the powers vested in them
under existing law. Municipal Councils and Urban Councils
188 - Inserted by the Thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 7. 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 251
will have the powers vested in them under the Municipal
Councils Ordinance and the Urban Councils Ordinance,
Pradeshiya Sabha will have the powers vested in them under
existing law. It will be open to a Provincial Council to confer
additional powers on local authorities but not to take away
their powers;
4:4 Gramodaya Mandalayas will have the powers vested in
Gramodaya Mandalayas under existing law. It will be open
to a Provincial Council to confer additional powers on
Gramodaya Mandalayas.
5. Provincial Housing and Construction –
5:1 Implementing, co-ordinating, supervising and monitoring
provincial housing development programmes and projects
(other than National Housing Development Authority
projects) including aided self-help housing projects, housing
loans and the provision of building materials;
5:2 The implementation of the Protection of Tenants Act and the
Rent Act within a Province;
5:3 Construction activity in respect of subjects in this List.
6. Roads and bridges and ferries thereon within the Province, other
than–
(a) national highways;
(b) bridges and ferries on national highways.
7. Social Services and Rehabilitation –
7:1 Probation and Child Care Services;
7:2 The Rehabilitation of destitute persons and families;
7:3 Rehabilitation and welfare of physically, mentally and socially
handicapped persons;
252 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
7:4 Relief of the disabled and unemployable.
8. Regulation of road passenger carriage services and the carriage of
goods by motor vehicles within the Province and the provisions of
inter-provincial road transport services.
9. Agriculture and Agrarian Services –
9:1 Agriculture, including agricultural extension, promotion and
education for provincial purposes and agricultural services
(other than in inter-provincial irrigation and land settlement
schemes, State land and plantation agriculture);
9:2 Rehabilitation and maintenance of minor irrigation works;
9:3 Agricultural research save and except institutions designated
as national agricultural research institutions.
10. Rural Development
11. Health –
11:1 The establishment and maintenance of public hospitals, rural
hospitals, maternity homes, dispensaries (other than teaching
hospitals and hospitals established for special purposes);
11:2 Public health services, health education, nutrition, family
health maternity and child care, food and food sanitation,
environmental health;
11:3 Formulation and implementation of Health Development Plan
and of the Annual Health Plan for the Province;
11:4 The provision of facilities for all institutions referred to in
1 above within the Province, excluding the procurement of
drugs;
11:5 Awarding of Scholarships for Post-Graduate Education within
Sri Lanka to personnel attached to the Institutions specified in
1 above.
12. Indigenous Medicine – Ayurveda, Siddha and Unani –
12:1 Establishment of Ayurvedic dispensaries and hospitals, grants
to such dispensaries and hospitals;
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 253
12:2 Establishment and maintenance of herbaria.
13:1 Rest houses maintained by local authorities; and
13:2 Circuit bungalows presently administered by Government
departments whose functions are exclusively specified in this
List.
14. Pawn brokers - Pawn brokers other than pawn brokers business
carried on by Banks.
15. Markets, fairs.
16. Food supply and distribution within the Province.
17. Co-operatives –
17:1 Co-operative undertakings and the organization, registration,
supervision and audit of co-operative societies within the
Province;
17:2 Co-operative development within the Province including
co-operative education and propaganda;
17:3 Provincial Co-operative Employees Commission;
17:4 Matters connected with employment, promotion, retirement
and other connected matters of employees of co-operative
societies within the Province.
18. Land.– Land, that is to say, rights in or over land, land tenure,
transfer and alienation of land, land use, land settlement and land
improvement, to the extent set out in Appendix II.
19. Irrigation.– Planning, designing, implementation, supervision and
maintenance of all irrigation works, other than irrigation schemes relating to
rivers running through more than one Province or inter provincial irrigation
and land development schemes.
20. Animal husbandry.– Preservation, protection and improvement of
stock and prevention of animal diseases within the Province.
21. Subject to the formulation and implementation of National Policy in
regard to development and planning, the power to promote, establish and
engage in agricultural, industrial, commercial and trading enterprises and
other income-generating projects, within the Province without prejudice to
the power of the Government and Public Corporations to have such
enterprises and projects.
254 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(This would include the promotion of scientific and industrial
research within the Province and the preparation, co-ordination and the
implementation of industrial development plans for the Province).
22. Reformatories, Borstal institutions and other institutions of a like
nature and persons detained therein, arrangements with other Provinces for
the use of such institutions.
23. Possession, transport, purchase and sale of intoxicating liquors.
24. Burials and burial grounds, cremations and cremation grounds,
other than those declared by or under law made by Parliament to be national
memorial cemeteries.
25:1 Libraries, Museums and other similar institutions controlled or
financed by a Provincial Council;
25:2 Ancient and historical monuments and records other than those
declared by or under law made by Parliament to be of national
importance.
26. The regulation of mines and mineral development, to the extent
permitted by or under any law made by Parliament, within the Province.
27. Incorporation, regulation and judicial winding up of corporations
with objects confined to the Province, excluding trading corporations,
banking, insurance and financial corporations.
28. Regulation of unincorporated trading, literary, scientific, religious
and other societies and associations.
29:1 Theatres and dramatic performances, music, cinemas,
entertainments and amusements, excluding the sanctioning of
cinematograph films for exhibition and public performances.
29:2 Encouragement and development of sports (other than national
sports associations).
30. Betting and gambling, other than imposition of licence fees and
taxes.
31. Provincial debt.
32. Offences against statutes with respect to any of the matters specified
in this his List.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 255
33. Fees in respect of any of the matters in this List, excluding fees
taken in any court.
34. Development, conservation and management of sites and facilities
in the Province for the generation and promotion of electrical energy (other
than hydro-electric power and power generated to feed the national grid).
35. The borrowing of money to the extent permitted by or under any
law made by Parliament.
36:1 Turnover taxes on wholesale and retail sales within such limits
and subject to such exemptions as may be prescribed by law
made by Parliament;
36:2 Betting taxes, and taxes on prize competitions and lotteries,
other than National Lotteries and lotteries organized by the
Government of Sri Lanka;
36:3 Licence taxes, arrack, toddy rents, tapping licence fees and
liquor licence fees;
36:4 Motor vehicle licence fees within such limits and subject to such
exemptions as may be prescribed by law made by Parliament;
36:5 Dealership licence taxes on drugs and other chemicals;
36:6 Stamp duties on transfer of properties, such as lands and motor cars;
36:7 Toll collections;
36:8 Fines imposed by courts;
36:9 Fees charged under the Medical Ordinance;
36:10 Fees charged under the Motor Traffic Act;
36:11 Departmental fees in respect of any of the matters specified in
this List;
36:12 Fees under the Fauna and Flora Protection Ordinance;
36:13 Fees on lands alienated under the Land Development
Ordinance and Crown Lands Ordinance;
36:14 Court fees, including stamp fees on documents produced in
court;
36:15 Regulatory charges under the Weights and Measures
Ordinance;
256 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
36:16 Land revenue, including the assessment and collection of
revenue and maintenance of land records for revenue
purposes;
36:17 Taxes on lands and buildings including the property of the
State to the extent permitted by law made by Parliament;
36:18 Taxes on mineral rights within such limits and subject to such
exemptions as may be prescribed by law made by Parliament;
36:19 Licensing fees on the possession, transport, purchase and sale
of intoxicating liquors;
36:20 Other taxation within the Province in order to raise revenue for
provincial purposes to the extent permitted by or under any
law made by Parliament.
37. Protection of environment within the Province to the extent
permitted by or under any law made by Parliament.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 257
APPENDIX I
Law and Order
1. The subject devolved shall be described as follows :–
Public Order and the exercise of Police powers as set out in this
Appendix within the Province, but not including –
(a) national defence;
(b) national security; and
(c) the use of any armed forces or any other forces under the control
of the Government of Sri Lanka in aid of the civil power.
2. The I. G. P. shall be the head of the Sri Lanka Police Force, The Sri
Lanka Police Force shall be divided into –
(a) the National Division (including Special Units); and
(b) a Provincial Division for each Province.
2:1 The National Division shall consist of the I.G.P., (D.I.G.G.,
S.S.P.P., A.S.P.P.,) and other ranks recruited at the national
level.
2:2 A Provincial Division shall consist of the D.I.G., S.S.P.P.,
S.P.P and A.S.P.P., all seconded from the National Division
and Provincial Assistant Superintendents of Police, Chief
Inspectors, Inspectors, Sub-Inspectors, Sergeants and Constables
recruited in the Province. Members of the Provincial
Division shall be eligible for promotion to the National
Division.
189[3. Recruitment to the National Police Division and promotion of
Police Officers in the Provincial Divisions to the National Division, shall be
made by the National Police Commission.]
3:1 The National Police Commission shall, before promoting
any police Officer serving in any Provincial Division to the
National Division, call for a Confidential Report on such
Officer from the relevant Provincial Police Commission
189 - Inserted by the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 23(1). 
258 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
and take the matters specified in such report into
consideration in deciding whether to promote such Officer
or not.
3:2 The Commission shall also be responsible for promotions,
transfers and disciplinary control of members of the National
Division other than the I.G.P. subject to paragraph 4:1
below.
3:3 It shall hear and determine appeals from officers seconded
to Provincial Divisions against whom disciplinary action
has been taken by Provincial Police Commissions.
3:4 It shall set standards for recruitment and promotion of
Police Officers of all Divisions and such standards shall be
uniform for all Provincial Divisions.
4. Recruitment to each Provincial Division shall be made by a
Provincial Police Commission composed of three members, namely -
(a) the D. I. G. of the Province;
(b) a person nominated by the Public Service Commission in
consultation with the President; and
(c) a nominee of the Chief Minister of the Province.
4:1 A Provincial Police Commission shall be responsible for
transfers, promotions and disciplinary control over officers
in the Provincial Division; for promotion of Officers of the
National Division seconded to the Provincial Division up
to the rank of S.S.P.; and for transfer and disciplinary
control over officers seconded to the Provincial Division,
except the D.I.G.:
259 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Provided that any Officer of the National Division
seconded to any Provincial Division against whom
disciplinary action has been taken by a Provincial Police
Commission, shall have the right to appeal to the National
Police Commission, whose decision on such appeal shall
be final.
5. The National Police Commission or a Provincial Police Commission
shall be entitled to delegate such of its powers as may be prescribed to such
other person or authority as may be prescribed.
6. The I.G.P. shall appoint a D.I.G. for each Province with the
concurrence of the Chief Minister of the Province. However, where there is
non agreement between the Inspector-General of Police and the Chief
Minister, the matter 190[will be referred to the National Police Commission],
who, after due consultations with the Chief Minister, shall make the
appointment.
7. The cadres of Police Officers of all ranks of the National Division
shall be fixed by the Government of Sri Lanka. The cadre of Officers and
other ranks of each Provincial Division shall be fixed by the Provincial
Administration 191[with the approval of the National Police Commission],
having regard to –
(a) the area of the Province;
(b) population of the Province; and
(c) such other criteria, as may be agreed to or prescribed.
These principles shall be uniformly applied to all Provincial Divisions.
7:1 The cadres of the Provincial Divisions shall be fixed on
ascertained principles such as population, area, number of
Police Stations involved and other relevant considerations.
These principles shall be applied to all Provincial
Divisions without distinction.
190 - Substituted by the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 23(2).
191 - Substituted by the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 23(3). 
260 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
7:2 The salary scales and perquisites of office enjoyed by the
various ranks in the National and Provincial Divisions
shall be determined by the Government of Sri Lanka after
consultation with the Chief Ministers of the Provinces.
The salary scales and perquisites of office as enjoyed by
members of the Provincial Divisions shall apply uniformly
to all Provincial Divisions.
8. The nature, type and quantity of fire-arms and ammunition and
other equipment for the National Division shall be determined by the
National Police Commission. The nature, type and quantity of fire-arms and
ammunition and other equipment for all Provincial Divisions shall be
determined by the National Police Commission after consultation with the
Provincial Police Commission and uniform standards and principles shall be
applied for all Provincial Divisions.
9. Recruitment to the National Division shall be made at the ranks
of P.C., S.I., and A.S.P., Recruitment to the Provincial Division shall
be made at the ranks of P.C., S.I., and P.A.S.P (rank referred to in paragraph
2:2 above).
9:1 Recruitment to the National Division shall be made by
the National Police Commission and recruitment to the
Provincial Division shall be made by the Provincial Police
Commission having regard to the standards of recruitment
and other criteria prescribed in this behalf:
Provided also that a recruit may, on appointment,
set out his preferences as to the Division in which he
wishes to serve and that he shall, if possible, be posted to
the Division of his choice, with the consent of the Division
concerned.
9:2 The Government of Sri Lanka shall be responsible for the
training of all recruits to and of members of all Divisions
of the Sri Lanka Police Force.
261 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

192[The National Police Commission may, where he
considers it necessary provide for alternate training for
members of any Provincial Division].
10. Members of the National Division and the Provincial Divisions
shall wear the same uniforms and insignia of rank, provided that uniforms of
the members of each Division shall bear a distinctive shoulder flash,
indicating the Division to which he belongs.
10:1 There shall be one uniformed police force in each
Province, comprising of the members of the Provincial
Division and the officers seconded thereto. Members of
the National Division shall ordinarily be in plain clothes
provided that they may wear uniforms when performing
any duties in respect of the maintenance or restoration of
public order as set out in paragraph 12:2, 12:3 and 12:4.
Provided also that the I.G.P. and such other Officers as
may be specified shall ordinarily be attired in uniforms.
11. All Police Officers serving in units of the National Division and
Provincial Divisions in any Province shall function under the direction and
control of the D. I. G. of such Province.
11:1 The D. I. G. of the Province shall be responsible to and
under the control of the Chief Minister thereof in respect
of the maintenance of public order in the Province and
the exercise of police powers in the Province as set out in
this Schedule.
11:2 The provisions of paragraph 11:1 above are subject to the
qualifications that –
(a) upon the declaration of an emergency in the Province,
the President may assume such powers and
responsibilities of the Chief Minister and the
Provincial Administration in respect of public order
within the Province as he may, by regulation,
provide; and
192 - Substituted by the Seventeenth Amendment to the Constitution Sec. 23(4). 
262 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(b) where the President is of the opinion that the
security of or public order in a Province is threatened
by grave internal disturbance, he may, without the
declaration of an emergency, but in consultation
with the Chief Minister of such Province and subject
to the provisions of the Public Security Ordinance,
by order, deploy in aid of the civil power, any unit
of the National Division, in the Province for the
purpose of restoring public order:
Provided that every such order shall cease
to be in force as soon as the President is satisfied
that public order has been restored or on the expiry
of thirty days from the date of the order, whichever
is earlier.
12:1 The Provincial Division shall be responsible for the
preservation of public order within the Province and the
prevention, detection and investigation of all offences
(except the offences specified in the Schedule) and
subject to the powers of the Attorney-General in terms
of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, the institution of
prosecutions in the relevant Courts in respect of such
offences.
The National Division of the Sri Lanka Police Force
shall be responsible for the prevention, detection and
investigation of all offences specified in the Schedule
and subject to the powers of the Attorney-General in
terms of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, for the
institution of prosecutions in the relevant Courts in
respect of such offences.
12:2 Where the Chief Minister seeks the assistance of
the National Division to preserve public order within a
Province, the I.G.P. shall deploy such personnel of the
National Division as are necessary for the purpose and 
263 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
place them under the control of the D.I.G. of the
Province.
12:3 Where a State of Emergency is declared in the Province,
the I.G.P. may deploy such units of the National
Division as he deems necessary in any Province for the
restoration and maintenance of public order within such
Province.
12:4 Any offence which may ordinarily be investigated by a
Provincial Division may be investigated by the C.I.D. or
any other unit of the National Division –
(a) where the Chief Minister requests, that such
investigation be undertaken by the C.I.D. or any
other unit of the National Division; and
(b) where the I.G.P. is of opinion that an investigation
of such offence by the C.I.D. or any other unit of
the National Division is necessary, in the public
interest and directs, after consultation with the Chief
Minister and the approval of the Attorney-General,
that such offence be investigated by the C.I.D. or any
other unit of the National Division.
13. The National Division shall perform all the functions vested in a
Provincial Division, in any Province, for a period of one year or until a
Provincial Division is established in such Province, whichever is earlier.
14. All Gazetted officers of the National Division and Provincial
Division shall be required to attain the prescribed standard in Sinhala and
Tamil. All Officers of the rank of A.S.P. and above shall also be required to
attain the prescribed standard of English.
Every recruit to the Sri Lanka Police Force shall have proficiency in
his mother tongue. For the first promotion he shall acquire proficiency in a 
264 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
language other than his mother tongue. For the next promotion he shall
acquire a knowledge of the third language. The three languages recognized
for this purpose are Sinhala, Tamil and English.
SCHEDULE
List of Offences to be investigated by the National Police
1. Offences against the State.
2. Offences relating to the Navy, Army and Air Force.
3. Offences relating to the Elections.
4. Offences relating to Coins, Currency and Government Stamps.
5. Any Offence committed against the President.
6. Any Offence committed against a Public Officer, a Judicial Officer,
or the Speaker, or the Prime Minister or a Minister, or a Member
of the Judicial Service Commission, or a Member of the Public
Service Commission or a Deputy Minister or a Member of
Parliament or the Secretary General of Parliament or a Member of
the President’s Staff or a Member of the Staff of the Secretary
General of Parliament.
7. Any Offence relating to property belonging to the State or a
State Corporation or Company or Establishment, the whole or part
of the capital whereof has been provided by the State.
8. Any Offence prejudicial to National Security or the maintenance of
Essential Services.
9. Any Offence under any law relating to any matter in the Reserve
List other than such offences as the President may, by order
published in the Gazette, exclude.
10. Any Offence in respect of which Courts in more than one Province
have jurisdiction.
11. International Crimes.
265 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
APPENDIX II
Land and Land Settlement
State land shall continue to vest in the Republic and may be disposed of
in accordance with Article 33(d) and written law governing this matter.
Subject as aforesaid, land shall be Provincial Council Subject, subject
to the following special provisions :–
1. State land –
1:1 State land required for the purposes of the Government in
a Province, in respect of a reserved or concurrent subject
may be utilised by the Government in accordance with
the laws governing the matter. The Government shall
consult the relevant Provincial Council with regard to the
utilisation of such land in respect of such subject.
1:2 Government shall make available to every Provincial
Council State land within the Province required by such
Council for a Provincial Council subject. The Provincial
Council shall administer, control and utilise such State
land, in accordance with the laws and statutes governing
the matter.
1:3 Alienation or disposition of the State land within a
Province to any citizen or to any organisation shall
be by the President, on the advice of the relevant
Provincial Council, in accordance with the laws
governing the matter.
2. Inter-Provincial Irrigation and Land Development Projects.
2:1 Such projects would comprise irrigation and land
development schemes –
(a) within the Province initiated by the State and
which utilize water from rivers flowing through
more than one Province; a Provincial Council
however, may also initiate irrigation and land
development schemes within its Province utilizing
water from such rivers;
(b) within the Province which utilize water through
diversions from water systems from outside the
Province; and
266 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(c) all schemes where the command area falls within
two or more Provinces such as the Mahaweli
Development Project.
2:2 These projects will be the responsibility of the
Government of Sri Lanka.
2:3 The principles and criteria regarding the size of holdings
of agricultural and homestead lands arising out of these
projects will be determined by the Government of Sri
Lanka in consultation with the Provincial Councils.
2:4 The selection of allottees for such lands will be
determined by the Government of Sri Lanka having
regard to settler selection criteria including degree of
landlessness, income level, size of family and agricultural
background of the applicants. The actual application of
these principles, selection of allottees and other incidental
matters connected thereto will be within the powers of
the Provincial Councils.
2:5 The distribution of all allotments of such land in such
projects will be on the basis of national ethnic ratio. In
the distribution of allotments according to such ratios,
priority will be given to persons who are displaced by the
project, landless of the District in which the project is
situated and thereafter the landless of the Province.
2:6 Where the members of any community do not, or are
unable to take their entitlements of allotments from
any such project, they would be entitled to receive
an equivalent number of allotments in another
Inter-Provincial Irrigation or Land Development Scheme.
This unused quota should be utilized within a given
time-frame.
2:7 The distribution of allotments in such projects on the basis
of the aforesaid principles would be done as far as
possible so as not to disturb very significantly the
demographic pattern of the Province and in accordance
with the principle of ensuring community cohesiveness in
human settlements.
267 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
2:8 The administration and management of such projects will
be done by the Government of Sri Lanka.
3. National Land Commission.
3:1 The Government of Sri Lanka shall establish a National
Land Commission which would be responsible for the
formulation of national policy with regard to the use of
State land. This Commission will include representatives
of all Provincial Councils in the Island.
3:2 The National Land Commission will have a Technical
Secretariat representing all the relevant disciplines
required to evaluate the physical as well as the
socio-economic factors that are relevant to natural
resources management.
3:3 National policy on land use will be based on technical
aspects (not on political or communal aspects), and the
Commission will lay down general norms in regard to the
use of land, having regard to soil, climate, rainfall, soil
erosion, forest cover, environmental factors, economic
viability, &c.
3:4 In the exercise of the powers devolved on them, the
powers shall be exercised by the Provincial Councils
having due regard to the national policy formulated by
the National Land Commission.
268 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
APPENDIX III
Education
1. Provision of facilities for all State Schools other than specified
schools (Specified Schools will be National Schools, Special
Schools for Service Personnel and schools for specified
development schemes).
2. Supervision of the management of –
(a) all pre-schools; and
(b) all State schools other than specified schools indicated
above.
(In order to ensure standards the Ministry of Education will retain
the right to inspect and supervise the management of schools).
3. The transfer and disciplinary control of all educational personnel,
i.e. Teachers, Principals and Education Officers, Officers belonging
to a National Service but serving the Provincial Authority on
secondment will have the right of appeal to the Public Service
Commission. Officers belonging to the Provincial Public Service
will have a right to appeal to the Public Service Commission
against dismissal.
4. Recruitment into the Teaching Service of those with diplomas and
degrees, from Colleges of Education and Universities, recognised
as teaching qualifications.
5. Until adequate numbers of these categories are available
recruitment into the Teaching Service will be on the results of
recruitment examinations conducted by the Public Service
Commission. On the results of these examinations interviews and
selection will be conducted together with the Provincial
Authorities.
6. Appointment of Principals of all schools other than those in
1A, B, C categories. (Criteria will be laid down by the Minister of
Education).
7. Appointment of Principals of 1A, B, C schools will be by the
Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject
of Education of the Public Service Commission.
8. Training of teachers and other educational personnel will come 
269 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
within the purview of the National Institute of Education.
Provincial Authorities will indicate their needs to the National
Institute of Education.
9. Appointment of Provincial Boards of Education which will
have the advisory functions, will be the responsibility of the
Minister of Education. However, this will be done with the
concurrence of the Chief Minister of the Provincial Authority.
10. Provincial Authorities will establish School Boards conforming
to the specifications laid down by the Ministry of Education.
11. Provincial Authorities will supervise the working of School
Boards.
12. Preparation of plans (educational development plan and
annual implementation plan) will be the responsibility of the
Provincial Authority.
13. Implementation of the Annual Education Development Plan.
14. Appraisal of the performance of Principals, Teachers and
Education Officers.
15. Conducting of in-service training programmes for which prior
approval of the National Institute of Education has been
obtained.
16. Conducting of local examinations approved by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations.
17. Implementation of non-formal education programmes.
18. Registration and supervision of pre-schools.
19. Obtaining the approval of the National Institute of Education for
local variations in the primary curriculum and selected subjects
in the secondary curriculum.
20. Construction and maintenance of educational buildings,
libraries and playgrounds.
21. Procuring and distribution of teaching aids, visual aids and
audio visual materials, furniture and other equipment.
22. Procuring and distribution of science equipment other than
certain specified items indicated by the Ministry.
23. Production and distribution of school text books after approval 
270 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
by the Ministry.
24. Organization and development of school libraries in accordance
with guidelines given by the National Library Services Board.
(Above based on the recommendations of Committee I of the Political
Parties Conference)
271 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
LIST II
(Reserved List)
National Policy on all Subjects and Functions.
Defence and National Security: Internal Security; Law and order and prevention and detection of crime except do the extent specified in item 1 of List I.
This would include –
(a) Defence of Sri Lanka and every part thereof including preparation for defence and all such acts as may be conducive in times
of war to its prosecution and after its termination, to effective demobilisation;
(b) Naval, military and air forces; any other armed forces of the Government of Sri Lanka;
(c) Deployment of any armed force of the Government of Sri Lanka
or any other force subject to the control of the Government of Sri
Lanka or any contingent or unit thereof in any Province in aid of
the civil power; powers, jurisdiction, privileges and liabilities of
the members of such forces while on such deployment;
(d) Delimitation of cantonment areas, local self-government in such
areas, the constitution and powers within such areas of cantonment authorities and the regulation of house accommodation (including
the control of rents) in such areas;
(e) Naval, military and air force works;
(f) Arms, firearms, ammunition and explosives;
(g) Atomic energy and mineral resources necessary for its production;
(h) Industries declared by Parliament by law to be necessary for the
purpose of defence or for the prosecution of war;
(i) Criminal Investigation Department;
(j) Preventive detention for reasons connected with Defence, Foreign
Affairs, or the security of Sri Lanka, persons subjected to such
detention; and
272 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(k) Extension of the powers and jurisdiction of members of a police
force belonging to any Province to any area outside that Province,
but not so as to enable the police of one Province to exercise powers and jurisdiction in any area outside that Province without the
consent of the Provincial Council in which such area is situated;
extension of the powers and jurisdiction of members of a police
force belonging to any Province to railway areas outside that
Province.
Foreign Affairs.
This would include –
(a) Foreign Affairs; all matters which bring the Government of Sri
Lanka into relation with any foreign country;
(b) Diplomatic, consular and trade representation;
(c) United Nations Organization;
(d) Participation in international conferences, associations and other
bodies and implementing of decisions made thereat;
(e) Entering into treaties and agreements with foreign countries
and implementing treaties, agreements and conventions with
foreign countries;
(f) War and peace; and
(g) Foreign jurisdiction.
Posts and Telecommunications; Broadcasting; Television.
This would include –
(a) Posts and telegraphs; telephones; wireless, broadcasting and other
like forms of communications; and
(b) Sanctioning of cinematograph films for exhibition.
Justice in so far as it relates to the judiciary and the courts structure.
This would include –
(a) Constitution, organisation, jurisdiction and powers of the
Supreme Court (including contempt of such Court) and the fees 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 273
taken therein; persons entitled to practise before the Supreme
Court, Court of Appeal and other Courts ;
(b) Constitution, organisation, jurisdiction and powers of the Court of
Appeal and the fees taken therein; and
(c) Jurisdiction and powers of all Courts, except the Supreme Court
and the Court of Appeal.
Finance in relation to national revenue, monetary policy and external
resources;customs.
This would include –
(a) Public debt of the Government of Sri Lanka;
(b) Currency, coinage and legal tender; foreign exchange;
(c) Foreign loans;
(d) Central Bank;
(e) National Savings Bank ;
(f) Lotteries organised by the Government of Sri Lanka or a
Provincial Council;
(g) Banking;
(h) Bills of exchange, cheques, promissory notes and other like
instruments;
(i) Insurance;
(j) Stock exchanges and future markets;
(k) Audit of the accounts of the Government of Sri Lanka and of the
Provinces;
(l) Taxes on income, capital and wealth of individuals, companies and corporations;
(m) Customs duties, including import and export duties and excise
duties;
(n) Turnover taxes and stamp duties, except to the extent specified in
List I;
(o) Any other tax or fee not specified in List I.
274 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Foreign Trade; Inter-Province Trade and Commerce.
This would include –
(a) Trade and commerce with foreign countries; import and export
across customs frontiers; definition of customs frontiers; and
(b) Inter-province trade and commerce.
Ports and Harbours.
This would include –
(a) Ports declared by or under law made by Parliament or existing
law to be major ports including their delimitation and the
constitution and powers of port authorities therein; and
(b) Port quarantine, including hospitals connected therewith;
seamen’s and marine hospitals.
Aviation and Airports.
This would include –
Airways; aircraft and air navigation; provision of aerodromes;
regulation and organisation of air traffic and of aerodromes;
provision for aeronautical education and training and regulation of
such education and training provided by Provinces and other
agencies.
National Transport
This would include –
(a) Railways;
(b) Highways declared by or under law made by Parliament to be national highways; and
(c) Carriage of passengers and goods by railway, land, sea or air or by
national waterways in mechanically propelled vessels.
Rivers and Waterways; Shipping and Navigation; Maritime zones including
Historical Waters, Territorial Waters, exclusive Economic zone and Continental Shelf and Internal Waters ; State Lands and Foreshore, Except to the
Extent Specified in Item 18 of List I.
This would include –
(a) Piracies and crimes committed on the high seas or in the air;
offences against the law of nations committed on land or the high 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 275
seas or in the air;
(b) Shipping and navigation on inland waterways, declared by
Parliament by law to be national waterways, as regards
mechanically propelled vessels; the rule of the road on such
waterways;
(c) Maritime shipping and navigation, including shipping and
navigation on tidal waters; provision of education and training for
the mercantile marine and regulation of such education and
training provided by Provinces and other agencies;
(d) Lighthouses, including lightships, beacons and other provision for
the safety of shipping and aircraft;
(e) Regulation and development of inter province rivers; and river
valleys to the extent to which such regulation and development
under the control of the Government of Sri Lanka is declared by
Parliament by law to be expedient in the public interest;
(f) Fishing and fisheries beyond territorial waters; and
(g) Property of the Government of Sri Lanka and the revenue
therefrom, but as regards property situated in a province, subject
to statutes made by the Province save in so far as Parliament by
law otherwise provides.
Minerals and Mines.
This would include –
(a) Regulation and development of oil fields and mineral oil
resources; petroleum and petroleum products; other liquids and
substances declared by Parliament by law to be dangerously
inflammable; and
(b) Regulation of mines and mineral development to the extent to
which such regulation and development under the control of the
Government of Sri Lanka is declared by Parliament by law to be
expedient in the public interest.
Immigration and Emigration and Citizenship.
This would include –
(a) Citizenship, Naturalization and Aliens;
(b) Extradition; and
276 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(c) Admission into and emigration and expulsion from, Sri Lanka;
passports and visas.
Elections Including Presidential, Parliamentary, Provincial Councils and
Local Authorities.
This would include –
Elections to Parliament, Provincial Councils, Local Authorities and to
the Office of President; the Department of Elections.
Census and Statistics.
This would include –
(a) Census; and
(b) Inquiries, surveys and statistics for the purposes of any of the
matters in this List.
Professional Occupations and Training.
This would include –
(a) Institutions, such as Universities, declared by Parliament by law
to be institutions of national importance;
(b) Institutions for scientific or technical education by the
Government of Sri Lanka wholly or in part and declared by
Parliament by law to be institutions of national importance;
(c) Provincial agencies and institutions for –
(i) professional, vocational or technical training, including the
training of police officers; or
(ii) the promotion of special studies or research; or
(iii) scientific or technical assistance in the investigation or detection of crime; and
(d) Co-ordination and determination of standards in institutions
for higher education or research and scientific and technical
institutions.
National Archives; Archaeological Activities and Sites and Antiquities
declared by or under any law made by Parliament to be of National
Importance.
This would include –
Ancient and historical monuments and records and archaeological sites 
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 277
and remains declared by or under law made by Parliament to
be of national importance.
All Subjects and Functions not Specified in List I or List III including –
(a) Pilgrimages to places outside Sri Lanka;
(b) Incorporation, regulation and winding up of trading
corporations, including banking, insurance and financial
corporations but not including co-operative societies;
(c) Incorporation, regulation and winding up of corporations, whether
trading or not, with objects not confined to one province, but not
including universities;
(d) Patents, inventions and designs; copyright, trade marks and
merchandise marks;
(e) Establishment of standards of weight and measure;
(f) Establishment of standards of quality for goods to be exported out
of Sri Lanka or transported from one province to another;
(g) Industries, the control of which by the Government of Sri Lanka is
declared by Parliament by law to be expedient in the public
interest;
(h) Regulation of labour and safety in mines;
(i) Manufacture, supply and distribution of salt by agencies of the
Government of Sri Lanka ; regulation and control of manufacture,
supply and distribution of salt by other agencies;
(j) Cultivation, manufacture and sale for export, of opium;
(k) Industrial disputes concerning employees of the Government of
Sri Lanka;
(l) Institutions such as Museums and War Memorials financed
by the Government of Sri Lanka wholly or in part and declared by
Parliament by law to be institutions of national importance;
(m) The Survey of Sri Lanka, the Geological, Botanical, Zoological
and Anthropological Surveys of Sri Lanka; Meteorological
organizations;
(n) National Public Services; National Public Service Commission;
(o) Pensions, that is to say, pensions payable by the Government of
Sri Lanka or out of the Consolidated Fund;
278 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(p) Salaries and allowances of Members of Parliament and the Speaker
and Deputy Speaker of Parliament;
(q) Powers, privileges and immunities of Parliament and of the members
and the Committees of Parliament; enforcement of attendance of
persons for giving evidence or producing documents before Committees
of Parliament or Commissions appointed by Parliament;
(r) Emoluments, allowances, privileges and rights in respect of leave
of absence, of the President and Governors; salaries and allowances
of the Ministers of the Government of Sri Lanka; the salaries,
allowances and rights in respect of leave of absence and other
conditions of service of the Auditor-General;
(s) Inter-Province migration; inter-province quarantine;
(t) Offences against laws with respect to any of the matters in this
List; and
(u) Fees in respect of any of the matters in this List, but not including
fees taken in any Court.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 279
LIST III
(Concurrent List)
1. Planning –
1:1 Formulation and appraisal of plan implementation strategies
at the provincial level;
1:2 Progress control;
1:3 Monitoring progress of public and private sector investment
programmes;
1:4 The evaluation of the performance of institutions and enterprises engaged in economic activities;
1:5 The presentation of relevant data in the achievement of plan
targets;
1:6 The dissemination of information concerning achievement of
plan targets;
1:7 Publicity of implementation programmes;
1:8 Manpower planning and employment Data Bank;
1:9 Nutritional planning and programmes.
2. and 3. Education and Educational Services.– Education, except to the
extent specified in items 3 and 4 of List 1.
4. Higher Education –
4:1 The establishment and maintenance of new Universities.
4:2 The establishment of degree awarding institutions under the
Universities (Amendment) Act, No. 07 of 1985 and other
institutions for tertiary, technical and post-school education
and training.
5. National Housing and Construction.– The promotion of integrated planning and implementation of economic, social and physical development of
urban development areas.
6. Acquisition and requisitioning of Property.
7. Social Services and Rehabilitation –
7:1 Relief, rehabilitation and resettlement of displaced persons;
280 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
7:2 Relief of distress due to floods, droughts, epidemics or other
exceptional causes and rehabilitation and resettlement of
those affected;
7:3 Restoration, reconstruction and rehabilitation of towns,
villages, public institutions and properties, industries,
business places, places of worship and other properties
destroyed or damaged, grant of compensation or relief to
persons or institutions who have sustained loss or damage
and the reorganization of civil life.
8. Agricultural and Agrarian Services –
8:1 Establishment and promotion of agro-linked industries, the
establishment and maintenance of farms and supervision of
private nurseries;
8:2 Soil conservation;
8:3 Plant pests.
9. Health –
9:1 Schools for training of Auxiliary Medical Personnel ;
9:2 The supervision of private medical care, control of nursing
homes and of diagnostic facilities within a Province;
9:3 Population control and family planning ;
9:4 Constitution of Provincial Medical Boards.
10. Registration of births, marriages and deaths.
11. Renaming of Towns and Villages.
12. Private lotteries within the Province.
13. Festivals and Exhibitions.
14. Rationing of food and maintenance of food stocks.
15. Co-operatives – Co-operative Banks.
16. Surveys – For the purpose of any of the matter enumerated in the
Provincial or Concurrent List.
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 281
17. Irrigation –
17:1 Water storage and management, drainage and embankments,
flood protection, planning of water resources;
17:2 Services provided for inter-provincial land and irrigation
schemes, such as those relating to rural development, health,
education, vocational training, co-operatives and other facilities.
18. Social Forestry and protection of wild animals and birds.
19. Fisheries - Other than fishing beyond territorial waters.
20. Animal Husbandry –
20:1 Production, processing, distribution and sale of livestock
and livestock products;
20:2 Veterinary training services and research, inclusive of the
provision of science laboratories and science equipment;
20:3 Animal breeding, care and health;
20:4 The establishment of pastures.
21. Employment –
21:1 Employment planning at Provincial level;
21:2 Special Employment programmes relating to the Province;
21:3 Promotion of youth employment activities relating to the
Province;
21:4 Technical Manpower Development Programmes in relation
to the Province.
22. Tourism.– Development and control of the Tourist Industry in the
Province.
23. Trade and commerce in, and the production, supply and distribution
of –
(a) the products of any industry where the control of such industry by the Government is declared by Parliament by law to be
expedient in the public interest and imported goods of the
same kind as such products; and
282 The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(b) foodstuffs and cattle fodder.
24. Newspapers, books and periodicals and printing presses.
25. Offences against statutes with respect to any matters specified in
this List.
26. Fees in respect of any of the matters in this List, excluding
fees taken in any Court.
27. Charities and charitable institutions, charitable and religious
endowments and religious institutions.
28. Price control.
29. Inquiries and statistics for the purpose of any of the matters in
this List or in the Provincial Council List.
30. Adulteration of foodstuffs and other goods.
31. Drugs and Poisons.
32. Extension of electrification within the Province and the promotion and regulation of the use of electricity within the
Province.
33. Protection of the environment.
34. Archaeological sites and remains, other than those declared
by or under any law made by Parliament to be of national
importance.
35. Prevention of the extension from one Province to another of
infectious or contagious diseases or pests affecting human
beings, animals or plants.
36. Pilgrimages.]