T h eFive-YearMission
T h eTheravadaTradeEconomy
Operation- Beyond2025
To w a r d sa ProsperousNation A Winfort h eMotherland
A UnitedSriLanka

Everyone said it was impossible...
but Idid it. I believed it was possible.
At a time when the economy of the country had gone to rack and ruin with no hope for the future, no political party or leader came forward to take the challenge of rebuilding the
country, they thought it was impossible. But I accepted the challenge.
You know this story so well.
Do you remember those anarchic times?
Those bygone days when we stayed in queues, holding empty gas cylinders... we took turns, remember? Mother in the morning, daughter in the evening, father at night and son at thecrackof
dawn. Remember
how we
spent terrible nights inside cars and three-wheelers by petrol stations waiting for fuel? People lost lives in those queues. But
was there anybody to complain? No, there was nobody to listen to your pains. So, when people could not take it anymore, they all took to the streets and screamed their frustrations out. They set fire to houses and killed politicians on the streets in broad daylight.
The Prime Minister resigned. The President stepped down. And all those politicians who now boast and inflate themselves declared that the country was beyond redemption and
they fled into hiding.
I was just a UNP MP in the Parliament. Just one man.
Eventually, they set fire to my house as well. The entire country was in flames.
Nobody believed it was possible to build a peaceful and prosperous country again, a country where people could be free and happy. Aby-gone dream.
But I rose from the ashes. I took the challenge because I have always loved my motherland, I always believed that this country could do better. It was my time to prove it.
Say, day, when vehicle bae one roady, andi Singlinand TaiN havina, Thai Peasa, Ramazan, and Christmas being celebrated, dansals being initiated everywhere once again during Vesak, I feel a sincere pride. I have achieved the impossible!
The politicians who fled and hid during the crisis have now come out of their dens and are criticizing me. I, who found 10 billion rupees to hold the Presidential Elections in this
country again. It is with much compassion Igaze at them.
Of course, I took over a bankrupt country. But we are gradually gaining speed. We have restructured our debt and we are recovering rhythmically.
In 2019, when Ileft the post of Prime Minister, our Gross National Product (GNP) was USD
89 billion. But in 2022, when I took over the country as President, it was USD 76.9 billion. Our GNP had dropped by USD 12.1 billion!
However, by the end of 2023, we were able to increase it to USD 84.4 billion even amidst
a crisis!
That
is what
Icall possibility.
If we continue to tread this path, we can reach USD 89 billion by the end of 2025. And from

there onwards, it will only keep increasing. When the GNP increases, our income increases, and our purchasing power gets strengthened and our quality of life improves.
We have come so far on this precarious rope bridge, now we cannot turn back! We only have a few more steps to reach the end of the bridge. We can complete this arduous journey. Yes, we can!
Some say that things feel better now because we do not have to pay back the loans. It's
not true. We did pay back the loans, approximately 2.5 billion rupees in 2022, and 2.6 billion rupees in 2023. The journey we have undertaken through hardships and obstacles has so far been a tremendous path of success. And
Iintend to complete this journey with
you!
Do you want to take these crucial steps once and for all and enter a prosperous future with
a strengthened economy? Or, do you want to get deceived by false promises and do experiments for change and fal back into a bottomless abyss? It's your decision.
Think before you decide. One more thing.
Idid all this with just one seat in the Parliament. However, Igarnered the support of many
parties to pass relevant Acts in the Parliament and make plans which are critical for development.
Al of you, despite your political preferences, extended me your full support.
That is why Iam contesting this Presidential Election as an independent candidate.
I do not represent a party or a group of people. I stand for all of you who have varied political views. My service is not only for you who are from the previous and the new generations but also for those children who are yet to be born - the future generation.
Iam here for your future. For our motherland.
Yes, I am here for you, and I will do my best for my country in the next five years. I will rebuild this country. The next five years will be a triumphant time for Sri Lanka.
When our country celebrates 100 years of independence in 2048, it will be a developed nation on the world map. Ibelieve Ican do it. Imay not live so long. But what Iam doing now is rebuilding the nation that hit rock bottom in 2022, and laying a strong foundation for its recovery and revitalization.
Come, let's rebuild our motherland. Yes, we can!

A nation can only be built and transformed through visionary thinking and action, not merely by words. He has proven it within the past two years.
People who were stuck in fuel queues then are now laughing in dansal queues.
Pause for a moment and compare the present situation with the state of the country two years back.
He accepted the enormous challenge of crossing over an arduous rope bridge of economic uncertainty. He finished what he started, he completed what he took
responsibility for.
He worked according to a plan. He had a far-sighted vision.
During the past two years, he introduced new Acts unlike any other President. New laws were passed covering the areas that were never touched.
Within the aim of directing the country in the right direction, he has created approximately one hundred (yes, 100!) laws in the Parliament so far. The Anti-corruption Act, the Central
Bank Act, the Election Expenditure Regulations, the Public Debt Management Act, the Truth and Reconciliation Act, the Online Safety Act, the Public
Debt Act, the Electricity
Act, the Women Empowerment Act, the Public Finance Management Act, the Economic Transformation Act, are some of the crucial Acts introduced by him.
The main candidates contesting this Presidential Election have held various ministerial positions under different governments. Some have even been Leader of the Opposition
and the Chief Opposition Whip.
Among them, Ranil remains a gleaming beacon who has placed his seal in the history of
Sri Lanka. It was during his time as the Minister of Youth, that this Ministry of Youth saw its
golden years. When he was the Minister of Education, the Ministry was at its peak. The country saw growth in all its industries across the island when he was the Minister of
Industries. The economy of the country took a new turn during his time as the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economic Policies.
Which other presidential candidate has such an illustrious past?
Yes, he held the post of Prime Minister several times, but there was always a President above him. Two years ago, when he became the President for the first time, he was able to
perform his duties towards the country independently and drive us towards development.
He recovered the nation from a state of misery within just two years - an unbelievable achievement.
He is the only person who has proven himself with action, not mere empty words.
Many people criticize his journey in public but sing his praises in private.
fI you are still not certain about your vote in this crucial Presidential Election, read the
following quotes and make your decision. These are not the claims made by ordinary people, but by international scholars who are experts in the fields of economy, social sciences and political sciences.



"WecommendedtheSriLankangovernmentforits
effectivemeasuresincurbinginflationandnurturing aconduciveenvironmentforbusinessgrowth,a swell
astheflourishingtourismindustry.Wearesatisfied withthegovernment'scommitmentt oenhancingthe
overall economic landscape."
Ms. Kristalina Georgieva,
Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
(September 2023)

"I pledge my support for President Ranil Wickremesinghe'seconomicrecoveryplanforSri
Lanka.Iappreciatehisunwaveringdedicationand commendhisprogrammeaimeda talleviatingthe
severe economic crisis in t h e country."
Mr. Yoon Suk Yeol, PresidentofSouthKorea
(September 19, 2023)

"I convey my respect to the President for the achievementshehasmadeduringthemost
challenging period i n Sri Lanka. He performed an extraordinary task in stabilizing the country following the economic crisis of two years ago."
Mr. Scott Morrison,
Former Prime Minister o f Australia
(July 18, 2024)

"IcommendPresidentRanilWickramasingheandthe Governmentonthesteadyprogressmadeonthe
economicrecoveryactionplan."
Mr. Masatsugu Asakawa,
President of t h e Asian Development Bank
(May 5, 2024)

TheT
her
ava
daT
rad
eEc
ono
my
Theterm'TheravadaTradeEconomy'maysoundunfamiliartoyou.
Wehavelearnedthati nthepast,differentcountriesfolloweddifferenteconomic systems.S o m eeconomicsystemsw e r esuccessfulwhiles o m efailed.
We intend to develop our economy by generating income through several sectors undert h eTheravadaTradeEconomicSystem.

During the Kingdom of Rajarata in ancient Sri Lanka, an economic system based on the concept of Theravada was practiced.
Under this economic system, we exercised trade with countries from China to Persia. Sri Lanka was considered the economic center of the Indian Ocean, and was a key hub of the ancient Silk Road.
Our country was equipped with the mechanism, facilities and the capability to distribute grain to the entire Eastern part of the world, which is why Sri Lanka was called the 'Granary of the East'
In the 13th Century, when the Kingdom of Rajarata collapsed, the Kingdom of Ayodhya which is present day Thailand, captured its trade. These two kingdoms dominated the regional market for 18 centuries.
But in recent years, Sri Lanka and Thailand have strived to regain economic strength.
In the late 1980s, Thailand transformed itself into a market economy based
on exports and tourism. Sri Lanka was limited to domestic production and shifted to an import substitute economy.

Our economic policies have been primarily focused on domestic production. The deficit is imported since the domestic products are not sufficient for daily needs. The budget
deficit is settled by local and foreign debts.
The Lord Buddha has shown in the Samaññaphala Sutta that loans should be taken not for consumption but for investment. We have ignored such an important economic
concept. By 2022 there was a burden of about USD 84 billion over our shoulders, but most of those loans have been utilized for consumption. As a result, we lost our image
and reputation before the world, two years ago. The country completely collapsed.
By the year 2022, the economy of the country had undergone a severe contraction. The GDP dropped. The foreign sector of the economy collapsed. And then, the rupee started depreciating. The value of the dollar, which was 183.61 rupees in 2019, rose up to 363.11
rupees by 2022. Inflation, which was 3.53% in 2019, increased up to 70% in 2022.
As a result of the decreasing rate of development, the rate of decline of the economy accelerated. The only way to lessen the cost of living is to hit breaks on the country's decline and work towards an acceleration in the development of the economy.

We Started Afresh
Initiating a tough mission of recovery, we started negotiations with the International
Monetary Fund (IMF). The situation of the economy was serious during the initial discussions, and this weak position of the country posed a disadvantage to our standpoint
during the discussions. But we did not give up, for, our aim was to transform the country back to normal; our expectation was to build a country which never sees queues for
essential needs again.
And today, the world has accepted that the Theravada trade economy followed by us is a resounding success.
Reduced Cost of Living
We strive to lighten your burdens in life by reducing the cost of living, it will be part of our
bigger plan of strengthening the economy. We wil not borrow more and more foreign loans, as a strategy to gain popularity, for such reliefs are temporary.
Because of the plan we followed, inflation which was 70% in 2022 dropped to 2.81% by
July 2024. The buying rate of USD which was initially Rs. 400 has now dropped below 300
rupees. In 2022, one litre of 92 Petrol was Rs. 470, but today it is Rs. 344. One litre of Auto diesel was Rs. 460 back then, but today it is Rs. 317. The electricity bills and water bills are
gradually decreasing.
As a result, the cost of living is reducing day by day. Sri Lanka is gradually returning to normalcy.
More measures wil be taken to further lighten the burden of living by providing essential items at more concessional rates in future.
Yes, we can!

Tax Relief
The fiscal
reforms that were implemented
since 2015
were suddenly suspended in
2019 by the then government. Taxes were reduced unreasonably. Government revenue dropped
to the lowest level in the world. It is one of the main reasons for the country to fall into an economic disaster.
We sought the assistance of the IMF to save our country. We stood before them as a bankrupt nation that had broken their agreement 16 times. Hence, we had no power for negotiations. Accepting their policies on government revenue was the best option to save
the country at that moment.
That is why we had to impose taxes. We did not do ti willingly. We were out of options at
that time. Doctors, engineers, and university academics had to suffer due to the taxes imposed.
However, now that the economy of the country has gained momentum and we have reached some stability, we received consensus from the IMF to revisit the tax conditions.
Accordingly, it has been proposed to increase the gap between the present tax slabs and to amend tax percentages.
Very soon, we can take a final decision in this regard.
We will be taking steps to pay tax-free service incentives to professionals in the future.
Many people are suffering due to indirect taxes; we will take measures to systematically abolish indirect taxes.
These two tasks will be executed within the next two years and tax relief will be provided to taxpayers, very soon.
And today, the world has accepted that the Theravada trade economy followed by us is a resounding success.


Let's Look at Thailand and Vietnam
Vietnam, a Mahayana Buddhist nation, stands as a fine example. In 1990, Vietnam folowed our economic policy, but ni 1995, ti adopted the economic policy of
Thailand. The results of the economic development of Vietnam speak for themselves. GrossDomesticProduct
1990 2023
SriLanka USD8 billion USD84.4billion
Vietnam USD6.5billion
USD4 2 9billion
Thailand and Vietnam have successfully crossed the rope bridge.
We have also started to folow the Theravada market economy, but ti wil only be successful fi we meet the following targets.
Indicator
Primary Budget Surplus
PublicD e b t
Gross FinancialNeeds
PresentCondition
Target
TimeFrame GDP0.6%(2023) GDP2.3% 2025-2032
Foreign
GDP 9 . 2 % DebtServices (2022)
2027- 2032 GDP 4.5%
AnnualLimit USDBillion15,1 2028
Gross Foreign Reserves
Inflation
Treasury Bonds
USD billion 5.6 (July 2024)
2.4% (July 2024) GDP7%(2023)
5 %
GDP lessthan7.5%
Continuously Continuously

We will adhere to the following plan;
No permission will be given to withhold arrears of government payments for more than three months.
Printing of money by the Central Bank to settle the budget deficit wil be strictly prohibited.
The price for electricity and fuel, should be decided based on the cost borne.
fI the Electricity Board and the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation incur losses, the Treasury should immediately and directly provide funds for the same.
The amount spent on social security should not be reduced beyond the amount prescribed.
These targets and limits are fixed and we will not compromise or negotiate them under any circumstance.
Our official creditors and China have granted us the concessions, subject to the above targets and limits.
If we cannot achieve those targets and limits, we will lose not only the assistance of the IMF, but also all the debt concessions. In which case that happens, we will fall back to the bottomless abyss and will be beyond redemption.
Therefore, what we should do is, stabilize our economy and gain a higher economic growth rate within these limits and targets.
During the election period, many political parties will hide this truth and give you various
false promises, but none of those promises are practical, but mere lies to win votes. This
is why none of those parties or candidates have come forward for an open discussion with the IMF.

Towards a Thriving Nation
We are aiming at creating an export-oriented manufacturing and service economy.
If the economy is not strengthened, any other sector of the country cannot be developed. A hungry nation has no room for spiritual development. Lord Buddha has also pointed
out that it is useless to preach to a hungry person.
If we do not proceed with this plan, we will face an even worse economic crisis in a few years. It can only be prevented by moving forward on the path we have followed so far.
We cannot be indebted to the world forever. Adebt economy cannot uplift a nation. But, fi we continue along this path, we wil be able to build a debt-free, developed economy
by 2048.
A Generation Free of Poverty
Around 25% of the community is facing various hardships due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the recent economic crisis. Be it the unavailability of opportunities, lack of facilities
to get a decent education, denied access to clean water and electricity, unemployment, or denied rights to get married and raise children, all these issues have to be addressed.
We pledge to prioritize providing solutions to these problems. We will work hard to
reduce the proportion of low-income people suffering from diverse hazards to 10%, during the next 5 years. We have formulated the National Social Protection Policy which would lay a foundation for solving this issue.
With the intention of redeeming people from poverty, we launched Aswesuma, which is a massive and more extensive programme than Samurdhi. Under this programme, we are providing financial assistance to 2.4 million families. Families facing economic
difficulties are receiving a maximum of Rs. 15,000 and the senior citizens, individuals
with special needs and kidney patients in these families are receiving financial assistance separately. This amount is higher than the Samurdhi allowance. Aswesuma
and Samurdhi programmes will be integrated and utilized for this purpose systematically.
We have identified the communities that are suffering from extreme poverty and social oppression. These families will be made regular participants in divisional development
programmes and priority will be given to such communities when recruiting employees
for government projects related to local infrastructure development, thereby empowering them economically.
Areas with such community groups will be further identified and special attention will be given to those areas in complying with the overall programme to eradicate poverty.

Towards a Beautiful 2048
The Theravada Trade Economy will ensure an adequate standard of living for all the
citizens. We will be able to create a highly competitive, export-oriented digital green
economy through this journey, and we will be able to achieve all our economic goals by 2048. We have already passed and implemented the primary laws aiming for necessary transformation towards such a development stage.
Particularly, the Central Bank Act, the Public Finance Management Act, the Public Debt Management Act and the Economic Transformation Act hold a significant importance in
this matter and through these enactments, the following wil be achieved;
.I New employment opportunities will be created, and thereby the job market wil be expanded. New income generation opportunities wil be created.
I.
The income generation will be increased.
Most of the countries worldwide have achieved development by resting a larger fraction
of the economy on the private sector. We plan to establish the Theravada Trade Economy on a wider dimension.
We will add two sectors to our economy to compete with a robust private sector.

The Government Sector
The Government has the power to regulate the entire economic system. Government-owned banks, financial institutions and enterprises conduct this financial
management
on a competitive basis. Il.
Peoples' Sector
Article 27(2)(e) of the Constitution is the basis for the new concept of the Peoples' Sector.
"the establishment of a just social order in which the means of production, distribution and exchange are not concentrated and centralised ni the State, State agencies or in the
hands of a privileged few, but are dispersed among and owned by, al
the People of Sri
Lanka; "
In order to make the Peoples' Sector a solid stakeholder in the economy,
Opportunities will be given to every citizen to be entitled to a land or a house National Wealth Fund will be established
The cooperative movement will be completely restructured
Property Rights
Aseparate authority will be established to ensure systematic and expeditious delivery of rights to citizens. This will ensure land ownership to 2 million people through the
Urumaya programme and the transfer of low-income housing owned by the
government
in the Colombo city to the residents within 4 years.
Loans will be granted at concessional rates to middle-class families for the construction
of houses. Low-income families shall be given the opportunity to own their houses in condominiums.
New villages wil be established for the plantation workers and those living in line rooms will be granted the right to own a plot of land.
Several housing schemes wil be launched under local and foreign investments within the next two years with the government intervention and we wil encourage the local
and foreign investors to construct apartments comprising of numerous floors covering all the major cities in the country.
The above measure will pave the way to reviving the construction industry which has been halted at present, within the next two years.

Financial Rights
Significant Trade Union representation will be allowed in the Board membership of the
Employees' Provident Fund (EPF) and Employees' Trust Fund (ETF). Representatives from the Chamber of Commerce will also be included to ensure better financial
administration.
These funds are currently utilized for government purposes. Whenever the government faces a shortage of finance, these funds are utilized for treasury bonds. We aim to
change this practice. When the economy of the country is stable, the utilization of these funds for government purposes will eventually cease.
This would allow the investment of these funds in safe local and international financial
institutions which would bring a high income to the country. By 2023, the Employees' Provident Fund and the Employees' Trust Fund will become the largest investment
fund in the country. This would bring more benefits to the members of the fund. National Wealth Fund
The National Wealth Fund will be formed by combining the budget surplus and the
profits of government institutions. This fund will be invested in local and international stock markets.
Cooperatives
The cooperative movement wil be completely reorganized in accordance with international standards. New rules will be introduced to make the cooperative
movement independent so that changes in political and government systems will not intervene in the management of this sector. A series of new cooperative laws will be
adopted in compliance with the cooperative model functioned in Scandinavian countries. The cooperative movement will thus be raised to a higher level to make it capable of facing the current market competition.

Operation- Beyond2025
Thisoperationis100%practical.Ithasbeendesignedbasedonthefuture growth rate of development of the country, scientific estimates about the future
incomegenerated,andtheresourcesthatcouldbeutilized.Thatiswhythisplan includes specific time frames a s well.

Climate Change
There are a number of climate change challenges we will have to face in future as a
tropical country, such as the increase of global warming, changes ni rainfall, and sea level rise. We will build disaster-resilient cities in the districts that are prone to natural
disasters.
We foresaw these issues and took measures within the last two years, paving the way for a green economy. Thus, we have been taking action to lay a foundation to convert the disadvantages of global climate change into advantages for our country.
We have been given a foremost place in the World Climate Change Programme due to
our commitment to addressing climate change. We have launched a number initiatives
in this regard such as the Climate Justice Forum, the Climate Prosperity Plan and the International Climate Change University.
We are a principal stakeholder of the Global Financing Pact entered into by the countries of the Global North and the Global South under the patronage of France, in order to
address the global climate changes. We have also joined the Global Blended Financial Alliance initiated by Indonesia focusing on the countries in the Global South.
We have launched a Tropical Region Collaboration programme at present with the aim of ensuring environmental safety in the tropical region.
Active participation in these initiatives provides us with opportunities to strengthen our economy. Creating an apt background for the said purpose, we are also determined to enforce the Climate Change Act.
We will be taking action to establish a Climate Change Secretariat and a Climate
Change Fund, which wil help us face climate challenges successfully while protecting our environment.
Sri Lanka has been blessed with a wealth of biodiversity. We wish to enact a new
Biodiversity Law and establish a Regulatory Body to conserve the biodiversity of the country.
Since climate change is impacting all aspects of development, environmental-friendly
procedures with a focus on climate change, wil introduced for sectors such as agriculture, industries, energy, etc, as specified ni this five-year action plan.
These tasks have already been initiated. The progress will be evident in future.

A Modern Agro-Culture
The current world population is around 8 billion. By 2050, this wil increase by 29% totalling up to 9.8 billion. Agricultural production therefore should be increased to cater
to this rising population in future.
Our target should be to supply at least a miniscule percentage of that requirement.
In this context, we will introduce a highly competitive export-oriented, high-income generating, modern agro-culture. We will encourage organic cultivation targeting large
foreign markets.
Farmers wil be provided with seeds, fertilizer and modern machinery required for
modern agricultural methods. A supply chain where agro-products wil be directly purchased from the farmers will be created. The establishment of a chain of storages
across the island in order to uplift the rural agriculture industry, is also in the works.
Home garden cultivations and subsistence crop cultivations in urban apartments will be highly encouraged
Three hundred thousand (300,000) acres of land will be allocated out of the underutilized State Land for export-oriented commercial crop cultivation.
Proper instructions and assistance will be provided to Urumaya freehold deed recipient farmers to expand and improve their cultivations. We will encourage them to use those
lands for productive crop cultivation and activities related to other agro-enterprises.
We have drawn up plans to modernize crop transport and sales, while minimizing waste
during
storage.
A well-organized programme to popularize the local foods in collaboration with the Government will be launched
The completion of Malwathu Oya, Thalpitigala and Vayamba Ela projects will be expedited in order to fulfill the water requirement for agricultural purposes and daily chores.
The first phase of these projects is expected to be completed by 2030.
An amount of Rs. 25,000 will be directly credited to the accounts of farmers for the purchase of fertilizer and other requirements needed for paddy cultivation. A fixed rate will be declared for the selling price of paddy from season to season.

A Sustainable Ocean Economy
Although our island home is surrounded by the ocean, even less than 40% of the boats we own at present are utilized for fishing. tI is planned to implement a plan to reap
maximum benefits from the ocean with the patronage of the local and foreign experts. This is expected to double the income of USD 300 million we currently earn via fisheries
products exportation.
The freshwater fishery industry, prawn cultivation, aquatic plants, and ornamental fish industry are expected to be promoted and expanded.
The fishery harbours across the island wil be developed and upgraded to Fishery
Economic Centres. Fishing societies, fishermen, investors and experts wil be linked to these centers in order to yield the best out of the economic centres.
We will be launching a concessionary scheme for the purchase of vessels from small fishing vessels to multi-day fishing trawlers.
Foreign investments for the development of the fishery industry will be encouraged
Steps will be taken to modernize the fishery industry to be in par with the international trends. The fishing community will be given the required assistance regarding the use of
modern vessels,
equipment and
technology.
In this manner, within a period of a few years, we will be able to uplift the living standards of the fishing community.
Fishing towns around fishing harbours are expected to be developed and fishermen will
be equipped with proper housing and other community facilities. Steps have already been taken to credit the fuel allowance provided to fishermen directly to their bank
accounts.
These initiatives will be implemented within the year 2025.
Since we are an island, we are surrounded by a rich seabed, which we have not yet
utilized to get maximum benefits. Along-term action plan to reap the maximum benefits of the resources in the seabed will be implemented with the aid of international expertise.
The first phase of all these plans will be launched from 2025 to 2029.

Strengthening the Dairy Sector
Only an amount of 35% of the dairy requirement is manufactured within the country. Due to the low dairy harvest, Milko Ltd operates many of its modern machinery only during a
short period of the year.
As a result of this, USD 282 million flows to other countries for milk importation per year.
While 35 litres of milk is extracted from each cow in the Ambewela Private Farm daily, only about 5 litres are extracted from a cow in other dairy farms in the country.
A programme to raise the dairy harvest by connecting the National Livestock
Development Board with Indian authorities related to the dairy industry is already in
progress. This would positively impact the local dairy industry in the aspects of technology and investment.
Through this programme, the following will be achieved.
Increase the current annual dairy production from 380 million litres to 820 million litres by the year 2035.
Provide a glass of fresh milk for all school children in the country free of charge.
Be self-sufficient with dairy production and be able to save the money that flows
out of the country to import milk and create income-generating opportunities with the byproducts manufactured using the excess.
Provide facilities such as high genetic animals, animal food, medicine, and cattle semen for artificial insemination for over 200,000 of small dairy farmers and entrepreneurs.
Provide 20,000 high-genetic cattle within the year 2025 for the local dairy farmers.
Increase the income currently generated by local dairy farmers up to an amount more than 40 billion rupees by 2035 and thereby strengthen the rural economy.
Launch a concessionary loan scheme for local dairy farmers.
Increase the dairy harvest yielded by the local dairy farmers from one cow per day up to 20 litres.
The first phase of this programme will be launched in 2025 and the tasks will be completed by 2035.

Visit Sri Lanka
Sri Lanka is a top tourist destination in the world.
The infrastructure required to provide a better experience for the tourists will be upgraded and the tourist arrivals which is 2.5 million will be increased to 5 million within the
forthcoming five years. The gross income received to the country from one tourist is currently USD 150, and it will be increased up to USD 500 by the year 2035.
The cities Colombo, Galle, Kandy and Trincomalee will be developed as the main tourist hubs. We will also provide necessary facilities to convert the Eastern coast and Jaffna to high-end tourist destinations. Steps will be taken to further increase the demand for the
Southern coastal area. The tourist industry wil be expanded to the hill country with better activities and attractions for tourists.
The sacred city of Anuradhapura will be transformed into an iconic city of cultural heritage, and it is expected to be as popular as the Sigiriya.
The construction of several tourist
zones will
be completed within
the next five years;
• Iranawila - 400 acres
• Bentota - 1000 acres
• Haputale-Welimada - 100 acres
Public-Private Partnerships for various aspects of the tourism industry will be encouraged, which would include the refurbishment of hotels/rest houses and the construction of new
hotels.
These tasks will be commenced in the year 2025 and completed by 2033.

Taking our Products to the World
If we need to take the next leap in the economy, we will have to uplift our industries and improve our products to a level where they can compete in the international market. We
already have gained international acclamation for apparel, tyres for industrial vehicles, etc. and it is high time we utilized the recognition. It is expected to import modern machinery made with modern technology to improve the aforementioned productions. International
investments, technology and expertise will thus be optimally utilized to overcome the current obstacles in order to nourish the production economy.
Anew Economic Commission wil be established for investment promotion and an Office for Internal Trade wil be set up to promote al aspects related to international trade. We will also establish a National Productivity Commission to enhance the productivity of the
country.
Trincomalee is expected to be the Primary Economic Hub which wil be equipped with a
harbour, efficient transport, industrial facilities, energy generation possibilities and also
naval and aviation strength. The Government of India has pledged to assist us in this matter.
I.
Expansion of the Bingiriya Investment Promotion Zone has already commenced.
II.
New Economic Zones wil be established in Kankasanturai, Paranthan and Mankulam consisting of 1000 acres in 2025.
Ill.
A new Investment Zone of 120 acres wil be set up in Dompe by year 2027. Sapugaskanda Investment Promotion Zone wil be expanded by 400 more acres.
IV.
The first phase of the Hambantota Zone which wil be constructed in an area of 4000 acres will commence in 2026.
V.
A Technological Zone of approximately 100 acres wil be established centered around the city of Kandy in 2026.
National Development Bank wil be established in the year 2025, in order to fund the large-scale projects and industries.
The operation of several entities for the promotion of production industries is inconvenient
to smal and medium-scale entrepreneurs. Therefore, a new single entity wil be
established by the name of Enterprise Sri Lanka to address the requirements of entrepreneurs.

Micro, small and medium-scale entrepreneurs have faced major difficulties and see a
downturn in their growth due to the recent economic crisis. A number of measures have been taken to resolve their issues. The interest rate of the loans up to 2.5 million issued to
them, wil be brought down to 5%. ASpecial Unit wil be established for this purpose in the General Treasury to coordinate the related activities.
Provincial Councils will be provided with funds and guidelines and for the upliftment of micro, small and medium scale entrepreneurs at provincial level, opportunities will also be given on selling their products.
Amechanism will be designed to sell their production through the currently operating and proposed economic centers.
We will address the issues faced by the owners of rice mill through a special mechanism.
Production industries will be operated on an environmental-friendly basis. An emission trading scheme will be introduced in line with international standards in order to minimize
the environmental pollution caused by the industries. It will thereby control the emission of pollutants to the environment. Steps will be taken to introduce carbon tax.

Universal Power: Energy
Investments in renewable energy production including green hydrogen wil be highly
encouraged. By 2030, we will obtain 70% of the power supply network from renewable energy sources.
Sri Lanka will thus be transferred to a Green Energy Hub and it will enable us to export energy to India and other neighbouring countries.
Natural gas power generation is also expected to see a rise.
The cost the citizens have to bear in respect of energy consumption will be reduced
within the next few years and a continuous supply of electricity, fuel and gas is ensured
without any scarcity or cut-off. The development of Trincomalee as an Energy Hub will strengthen the energy sector.

Digitalization
The latest and the most advanced trends shaping the world in future are Artificial
Intelligence (Al) and Automation based on digital technology. Al will be the base of all disciplines in future, from health to education to financial and economic sectors.
A Technology Promotion Act will be passed in the year 2025 with the aim of bringing
about a digital transformation. A Digital Transformation Agency and a Technology and Innovation Council will thereon be established. Amendments have already been made to the Sri Lanka Telecommunications Act in an attempt to create the
background for this purpose.
Steps will be taken to accelerate the digital revolution through the introduction of internet
services based
on the satellite technology.
The present and future generation of the country will be brought closer to the new trends in technology. The young generation wil be empowered with knowledge on digital technologies.
It is aimed to completely shift to e-Governance within a period of three years, by digitizing the entire public service and utilizing Al to deliver effective and efficient services to the public.
At present, the share of our digital economy is USD 5 billion. We wil be laying a robust foundation required to raise that figure to USD 15 billion within the next five years.
Aproper and comprehensive legal framework wil be formulated to prevent and control the misuse of Al and to ensure the privacy of content and intellectual property rights. Al trademarks wil be protected through the Madrid Protocol.
Issuing the digital identity cards to citizens has already been initiated and it is expected to introduce an electronic voting system for elections in the near future.

A Knowledge-Based Society
Asociety which is equipped with knowledge and professional expertise should be created in order to overcome the technological, economic and societal challenges we have to
undergo in future.
A new entity named Vocational Skills Sri Lanka (VSSL) will be established in the year
2025 amalgamating the National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority and the Vocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka. Al the vocational training schools and centres will be brought under its purview.
A Post-School Education Commission is also planned to be set up.
We wil enable vocational training for students who are leaving school. As the initial step of this project, the government wil provide the funds required to give vocational training to 50000 students in 2025. Basing this pilot project, funds will be more extensively
provided with the assistance of the Asian Development Bank.
Provincial Vocational Education Boards will be established in all nine provinces before the end of 2026, and all the vocational training centres located in the provinces
will be upgraded to vocational schools and brought under the established Provincial Vocational Education Boards.
Technical and Vocational and Management University Colleges will be opened in all the provinces, with faculties thereunder in all districts. Steps will be taken to award the
related degrees upon the completion of an academic period of two years, similar to developed countries.
The subject of Technology has not been given significant attention in the current
university system. A new university will be established in Galaha-Kandy with the sponsorship of the Chennai IT (Chennai Institute of Information Technology). Several other Technological Universities will be opened in Hewagam Korale, Siyane Korale and Sath Korale. These activities will be commenced from 2025 to 2028.
University of Vocational Technology established by the Act No. 31 of 2008 will be
restructured and be renamed as Wimalasurendra Technological University by the year 2026.
The following universities will be added to the Sri Lankan University network by the year 2029.
International Climate Change University University of Agricultural Technology


Better Standards of Education
The present school infrastructure was created by taking into consideration the situation that prevailed decades ago. These infrastructure facilities are therefore now completely outdated. Steps wil be
taken to modernize the school
infrastructure system ot face the era of technology which wil be dawned in 2040. Funding wil be provided by the government.
Aprogramme to equip teachers with new knowledge and training will be implemented in the year 2025.
The establishment of School Boards with representatives from School Development Societies and Past Pupils Associations will be completed within the period from 2025 to 2027.
School education will be revised with a focus on soft skills, life skills and moral values. The system of examinations and evaluations will be revisited enabling the students to start
university education at the age of 17 years.
"English for Al" programme which provides English education to all the school children will be implemented within the next decade. It has been planned to recruit 2500 English
teachers as a short-term remedy to fil the vacancies for English teachers throughout the
country; 1000 retired teachers, 400 from Teaching Colleges and 1100 graduates recruited through a competitive examination will come under the aforementioned 2500 new
teachers. The graduates recruited will be given a special training for a period of 3 months
before
their posting.
Steps will be taken to change the method of compilation of school textbooks, and to revise the curricula to with a focus on interesting approaches to subject matter.
The main objective of education would be the development of the personalities and
characters of students while equipping them with new knowledge and skills, creativity and self-confidence.
The foundation of the future generation is laid by the preschools. A special programme will be launched to improve and regulate preschool education, along with a standard
training for preschool teachers

Health, the Greatest Wealth
Sri Lanka has free health service. But, is health service truly free? The less fortunate have
to be in the waiting list for years even to get an essential treatment such as cardiac surgeries. Our health service must be perceived at a new angle, and an atmosphere where
optimal service is provided to the people, must be created.
A favourable environment will be built for doctors, nurses, other medical professionals and
members of the supporting staff, to carry out their duties in a better manner. A key expectation of improving the condition of healthcare personnel is to reduce the brain
drain.
Local and foreign training opportunities for the medical staff headed by the doctors will be expanded.
Medical Officers will be provided more facilities to obtain postgraduate degrees.
In Sri Lanka, we have skilled and eminent Medical Officers serving all over the country. Our health service is also equipped with well-experienced supportive cadres. Therefore,
we need to upgrade our health services to a higher standard to offer medical treatments to foreigners. On one hand, it will bring in foreign exchange and on the other, it will create a background to upgrade the healthcare facilities offered to the general public through the
money generated through medical tourism.
With this objective also in mind, we will rebuild the Colombo National Hospital as a modern hospital with international facilities. It is expected to be converted into one of the
key hospitals in South Asia.
The conditions of government hospitals located across the country are to be upgraded. Government hospitals will be constructed in proportion to the population ratio and the
healthcare services will be upgraded to an optimal level within the next 15 years.
The Medical Research Institute will be strengthened with modern technology with the intention of making it the supreme research laboratory in the region.
With the objective of ensuring the availability of high quality medicine, steps wil be taken to establish a Pharmaceutical Standardization Institute recognized by the international standardization institutes.
Proper measures will be taken to minimize waste through a smart healthcare service using Artificial Intelligence, digitalization and automation.
Traditional
and indigenous medicine will be promoted and preserved. We will introduce a system to gift the invaluable knowledge of traditional and indigenous medicine to the
future generation.
New laws will be introduced to subject private hospitals to proper regulation.
The establishment of private hospitals in all nine provinces shall be encouraged
Special attention will be provided to introduce a resilient health care insurance scheme enabling all citizens to receive treatments from any hospital of their preference.

Beyond the Horizon
Steps will be taken to link our country more with the world not only through the air and sea, but also via land.
Palali International Airport expansion activities will commence in the year 2026. We will commence the establishment of an international airport in Hingurakgoda.
Colombo Harbour wil be further expanded and upgraded it to a level where it could compete with international harbours.
Trincomalee Harbour development activities which wil be done with the assistance of India, will be started in 2026.

City Splendour
The area from Kalutara to Negombo will be developed into one extensive megapolis. These city
planning activities will be carried out in consultation with Surbana Jurong Pvt Ltd of Singapore, which is a world-renowned company with urban planning expertise.
One more sub-city will be developed and equipped with key facilities in addition to the city which is considered the main city of each district at present.
State-of-the-art facilities in par with international standards will be given
to all the cities and megapolises thus created and developed.
We will develop a disaster-resilient plan for the newly designed cities, as well as the existing cities that are vulnerable to natural disasters. The new cities built will be equipped with the
ability to minimize the damage done by natural disasters.
Such inadequacies have been identified and a programme is planned to be launched in 2025 to address these issues.
The
sewage systems currently existing in most of the main cities are decades old. We will develop and improve the conditions of urban sewage systems.
We will make the water supply to cities systematic. We will provide tap water to the dry zone, central hills, coastal areas and other areas that face scarcity of water.

Improvements to Transport
We have made future plans for the sectors of transport and highways with the aim of providing sustainable green transport services.
We wil use digital technologies from issuing driving licenses to driving vehicles.
In order to encourage the use of electrical vehicles, we wil establish charging centres around the
country.
We will regulate public transport.
While continuing the current road developments, we will design a road network which will suit the needs of the future.
The construction of Kandy Highway will be continued. The above mentioned tasks will be commenced in 2025.

A Key to the North
From ancient times, the Northern Province held an important key to the country's
economy. Even though, the northern economy regrettably collapsed due to the
decades-long war, we have already launched plans to revive the country's economy through the Northern Province. Our aim is to strengthen the North into being a major economic stronghold which renders a greater contribution to the Western Province as well
as to
our
economy.
Water scarcity has been a burning issue in the North for many years. We have already launched a seawater desalination project and more projects of similar nature are yet to be implemented.
'River for Jaffna' project has been given
the foremost priority in the list of newly commencing water supply projects and ti wil be commenced in the year 2027. We wil rebuild the Punarin Tank in 2026 and refurbish all other small tanks scattered in the
Northern Province. A reservoir will be built across the Paliaru River which falls to the sea at Mannar.
We will transform the Pooneryn new town into a stronghold of renewable energy. Jaffna will be developed as a Technological Education Hub.
'Saraswathi Mahal' constructed with Indian aid will be further developed as a centre for the promotion of Tamil arts and culture.
A Tamil Literary Festival will be launched with the same glamour and scale as the internationally renowned Galle Literary Festival.
The economic, social, and cultural ties between South India and the Northern Province
will be further strengthened by developing the air, maritime and land based transportation modes.

Revival of the Eastern Province
Trincomalee will b e transformed into one of the major economic centres equipped with all aspects such as
transport, energy, industries, ports,
naval,
and aviation. The
transformation will be supported by the Government of India.
We will develop the Verigalara to Panama-Kumana coastline to utilize
them optimally in the tourism industry.
We will commence Hedaoya Water Project in 2025.

A Brighter Future for the Plantation Community
A Gazette Notification is already issued increasing the wages of plantation workers. In
addition to this, a number of specific measures to uplift the living standards of the plantation community will be taken in future.
Steps will be taken to transfer the freehold ownerships of the houses and land to the plantation community, in order to transform their current lives in line rooms to better
standards of living. Thus, ni future, the plantation community wil be living ni villages instead of line rooms and this project wil be started in the year 2025.
We wil launch a proper mechanism to provide facilities such as land required for the plantation community to engage in other cultivation activities.
The Sri Pada National College of Education will be expanded and developed with the
intention of training talented youth in the plantation community as a solution for the present vacancies for teachers in estate schools.
The subject streams offered in estate schools will be expanded and more facilities will be provided for science subjects.
Special attention will be given to improving the healthcare and sanitary facilities in plantation areas.
Aswesuma will be provided to low-income families in the plantation sector.

Towardsa ProsperousNation
The true meaning of progress i s gradually elevating the social standard and the
standardoflivingofpeople.Thesocietycomprisesofvulnerable,n o tquite vulnerablea n dempoweredgroups,andt h econtributiono fallthesegroupsis
requiredfortheeconomicdevelopmentofthecountry.O ntheotherhand,the
benefitso fdevelopmentshouldb eequallydistributedamongallthese communities.Thatalonewillleadu st oa prosperousnation.

Laws for Justice
None of the political leaders who have boasted about catching thieves
took action or
showed interest in passing the necessary laws to ensure justice.
We did not waste time bragging but discussed with the IMF and adopted modern anti-corruption laws, based on global best practices to prevent bribery and corruption.
We will be implementing the Anti-Corruption Agenda to make our country the least corrupt State in South Asia through the following action;
1. Full commitment to eradicating corruption
2. Strengthening institutions for a transparent future
3. Recovery of stolen assets
4. Collaboration with international partners
Further, under this process,
• •
• • •
• •
•
• •
Anti-Corruption Act No. 09 of 2023 will be fully enforced
A National Anti-Corruption Plan will be formulated and implemented from 2025 to 2029
The National Audit Act will be revised to strengthen audit functions
Asset, liability, and interest disclosures will be made transparent and efficient
Financial crime and money laundering regulations will be tightened
Anti-Corruption laws and investigations will be stregthened
Company law will be amended and ownership benefits framework will be aligned with the standards of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF)
Public procurement will be made transparent
The list of organizations receiving tax relief wil be published The Right to Information Act will be further strengthened

Empowered Women
The female population in Sri Lanka is 51.6%.
We are taking various actions to protect the rights of minorities. But what have we truly done to protect the rights of the majority of the population, which is women?
We are determined to create a society where women are respected and treated equally. A
society which enables women to be independent and empowered wil be the objective. The basic laws required for this purpose have already been formulated. Women
Empowerment Act has already been passed.
A separate commission for women's rights will be established as per the Women Empowerment Act.
We will formulate new policies to support the women suffering from poverty.
The current process of liberating women from the burden of micro-finance loans and other debts will be further expanded.
We will provide concessional loans to female-headed families at a maximum of Rs. 1,000,000 at an interest rate of 3%, and more opportunities will be provided for
self-employment.
We will take measures to prevent violence against women including harassment at home, on the streets and at work.
We will increase the number of female police officers to ensure the maintenance of regular and well-functioning Women and Children Affairs Units in every Police Station.
Around 51.6% of Sri Lanka's population are women. In order to ensure equality, we will implement a special programme to boost female representation in politics and business.
We have planned a programme to work together with other SAARC countries to enact legislation for women's rights. Aregional conference on the rights of women wil be
organized in Sri Lanka.
The above-mentioned action will be completed during the period from 2025 to 2030

A Better Tomorrow for the Children of the Nation
Within the year 2025, we will formulate necessary laws that protect children's human rights
and child rights while protecting them from abuse, delinquency and child sexual exploitation,
Laws are already being drafted in collaboration with the UNESCO, against the uploading of children's images to cyberspace by infringing their privacy. Necessary steps wil be taken to create a more appropriate model for the protection of the child with respect to
child victims.
We will introduce rules to protect children's safety, opportunities and rights by regulating
children's homes, pre-schools, tuition classes, sports training institutes and daycare centres.
Counselling services will be made available to children who feel isolated in the present
digitalized society. We will take all necessary action for the same under our government both inside and outside the school system.
The above tasks will be complete in 2029.

Blossoming Youth
The future belongs to the youth, especially Generation Z, who are growing up in a fast-paced,
digital world. Generation Z, grew up ni a rapidly developing world of technology. Therefore, they are designed to be quick in action and decision making.
We have a series of plans in the works to equip the youth with the knowledge and experience required to lead the nation in the future.
They wil be given opportunities and guidance to generate income by working from home.
Training programmes will be implemented in the fields of Digital Marketing, Freelancing, E-Commerce, etc.
The necessary creativity skills and technical guidance will be provided to the young generation who would like to professionally engage in social media as content creators. We
will form the necessary background to create employment opportunities in emerging areas
such as modern agriculture and, the eco-friendly tourism industry. These opportunities will be efficiently expanded as the economy of the country gets strengthened.
We will expand National Youth Mental Health Promotion Services and implement a
comprehensive programme to help individuals overcome harmful addictions and adopt effective socialization practices.
We will provide opportunities and support for cultural, aesthetic and creative activities as well as sports activities.
The necessary background will be created to increase the representation of youth in the
political field. The new generation of politicians wil be equipped with knowledge through the establishment of the Youth Parliamentary Consultation Office and a Faculty of Political
Science.
Youth engagement in governance will be encouraged through the 'Gen ZDialogue, a dialogue where youth could present their novel and creative ideas of governance to the state.
We will revive Provincial Youth Centres and provide modern facilities.

S
p
o
rt
s
Informal
practices and external interferences in the past have led to current weaknesses in sports administration. As a result, our athletes are facing various difficulties.
New legislation will be introduced for sports to address this situation.
According to the recommendations of the committee appointed on cricket, Sri Lanka
Cricket wil be restructured. The draft presented by the committee has now been submitted to the International Cricket Council for approval.
The sports training institute will be modernized to be on par with present-day requirements.
A well-structured development programme wil be implemented at both the village and
school levels in order to recognize and improve the skills of rural athletes up to international standards.
We will develop the Diyagama Mahinda Rajapaksa Stadium to international standards. Al these tasks will commence in 2025.

Senior Citizens
In the current fast-paced and complex society, it is increasingly challenging for senior citizens to rely on their children for necessary care.
Both adults and children often find themselves in difficult and helpless situations when it comes to providing care for elders.
Therefore, it is expected to establish care centres for senior citizens all over the country, that are armed with modern facilities.
We will amend the National Policy for Senior Citizens in 2025.
Various activities wil be carried out by the Divisional Secretariats and Community Organizations to enhance the social and cultural lives of senior citizens.
The Requirements of the Community with Special Needs
Abiding by Article 4 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, we will be introducing a new Bill in 2025, ensuring that all citizens, including
those with disabilities, enjoy full human rights and freedom.
We will take steps to adopt the Sign Language Bill and develop a comprehensive national policy for people with special needs.
The building access policies will be revised to ensure that they meet the requirements of individuals with disabilities.
We will allocate a special employment quota for such communities.

Respect for All Communities
Across the country, there are small community groups that often go unnoticed and are
marginalized by society. Although these groups have faced different forms of suppression and difficulties, no attention has been given to their requirements so far.
We are committed to building a society where no citizen is discriminated against or
disadvantaged based on religion, language, caste, gender, political opinion, or place of birth.
A New Hope for the Public Service
Public servants will receive salary increments starting from a minimum of 24%. The lowest salary, inclusive of the Cost of Living Allowance, wil be increased to Rs. 55,000.
Government employees below the age of 40 will be given one year's leave with scholarships to follow courses to improve service efficiency.
A University of Public Policy and Administration will be established. Askills or merit-based promotion system will be introduced.
Our plan includes digitalizing the entire public service to make it more efficient and streamlined. To support this initiative, we are hoping to provide laptops, tablets, and smartphones at subsidized rates.
Government employees without access to housing will be given priority under a new housing scheme.
As the economy strengthens, we will increase the amount of distress loans and reissue property and housing loans.
The services that can be performed remotely will be given the option of working from
home.
We wil implement a formal and transparent transfer system within the Public Service. We are committed to eliminating salary anomalies among pensioners.
The above tasks will be commenced in 2025


One Hundred
Thousand New Employment Opportunities
in the Next Year!
a result of our economic policies, an increasing number of new enterprises will emerge As
through local and foreign investments, creating numerous employment opportunities in
the future. While this may take a year or two to develop, in the meantime, one hundred thousand new employment opportunities will be provided in the year 2025 as follows;
Development
projects supported by foreign countries, which were previously suspended, are now being resumed since we are presently emerging out of
bankruptcy. Many of these projects are in the construction industry, and this will create numerous job opportunities.
In
2025, we will launch a new programme for youth who do not get through
Ordinary Level and Advanced Level examinations. This programme, in collaboration with the private sector including tourism
and manufacturing industries, wil provide vocational training and a monthly allowance of Rs. 35,000 for a period of one year. Private companies could also contribute additional funds
to this allowance. They wil be provided with employment opportunities
in
those companies after the training.
New employment opportunities are emerging nationwide, owing to the concessional loans given to small and medium enterprises. It is also a great
opportunity
to offer a solution to unemployment.
Agricultural modernization will create a significant number of new employment opportunities from the year 2025 to 2027.
Additionally, vacancies created by retirements in government service will provide further employment opportunities.

Foreign Employment
Foreign workers are a crucial source of our country's foreign exchange.
We are in the process of amending the Foreign Employment Bureau Act, which will introduce benefits such as housing schemes and daycare centres, to provide them with
better facilities and working conditions.
We will also be taking necessary steps to enhance foreign employment opportunities. We will establish an Information Centre which will provide continuously updated data on
the international job market.
Employment opportunities in the fields of elderly care and childcare are abundant in foreign countries. We wil train the youth who wish ot be employed ni those areas and improve their
language skills.
These tasks will be commenced in 2025.

Support for Informal Workers
A large number of people work in the informal labour market, which includes three-wheeler drivers, private bus drivers and conductors, labourers and many others.
We will be introducing a contributory pension and social security system for all these workers in the year 2025.
Standardized training wil be provided to enhance the professional dignity of these roles.
NVQ Level 4 certification courses for female massage therapists have already been introduced.
Many three-wheeler drivers are currently suffering due to debt. We will be providing the defaulters with an opportunity through state banks to restructure their loans. Discussions
will be done to make the necessary arrangements to extend this relief through private banks a s well.

Country First
The Security (Special Provisions) Act has now been drafted to enhance the status of our Tri Forces and stabilize the security of the nation.
The committee's report on modernizing security forces to meet the demands of 2030 has been received, and its recommendations will be implemented.
'One Rank - One Pension' system will be introduced for the Tri Forces. This will eliminate the issues related to pensions of war heroes.
Opportunities will be expanded for our military personnel to serve in the UN Peacekeeping Missions.
Avenues will be created for retired military personnel to contribute to the security sector by encouraging the establishment of related manufacturing industries.
Sri Lanka Navy and Sri Lanka Air Force will be given opportunities to gain valuable experience and generate income through deployments in the Gulf region.
We will empower our armed forces with advanced knowledge and technology, ensuring that the nation's security remains safe from the threats that may come from land, sea, air,
or cyberspace.
Renaissance of the Police Service
The basic foundation of a strong criminal justice system is to create a Police Service consisting of safe, responsible, active, competent, brave and honest officials who ensure the safety of citizens.
A Police University will be established with the aim of improving the institutional and extracurricular knowledge and skills of police officers. Thereby police officers will be given the opportunity to obtain degrees and post-graduate degrees while in service.
In our effort to build a disciplined society, we will establish the foundation for the Sri Lanka Police to deliver service with maximum efficiency.

Prisoners are Human
Beings Too
At present, prisons are overcrowded, and this posing significant harm to the mental and physical health of inmates. It also impedes the effective rehabilitation of prisoners,
hindering their reintegration into society as productive individuals.
We have planned to build a number of new prisons in accordance with international standards.
It is expected to equip these new prisons with facilities in the aspects of health,
sanitation, food, and welfare services for both prisoners and prison officers. This wil strengthen the process of rehabilitating prisoners and helping them reintegrate into society as law-abiding citizens.
The cases of long-term detainees and those serving lengthy sentences will be reviewed. Necessary facilities and training will be provided to prison officers.
Combating Illegal Drugs
Illicit drug use, drug trafficking, drug addiction and the inability to recover from addiction
have created serious social problems. We are ready to take action to control al illegal drug-related activities.
In 2025, we will draft a bill to establish a comprehensive Anti-narcotics Command
Headquarters covering al functions from drug control to rehabilitation of drug addicts, and ensure that it is passed in 2025 itself.

Cultural Citizens
It is no secret that Sinhala Language, Literature and Fine Arts are nourished by Buddhist teachings. These teachings alone can shape people to be good and exemplary citizens.
Sri Lanka is a multi-religious and multi-cultural nation. Hinduism, Christianity and Islam
have been practiced in Sri Lanka from the past. I pledge to protecting and respecting all religions, places of worship, and cultural identities in our multi-cultural society.
The invaluable heritage found at the historical sites of Anuradhapura and Polonnaruwa
should be further studied and utilized for the benefit of the country. We aim to give priority
to peace and eliminate disputes, that are found in the values of governance in the Eastern world. While promoting non-violence, kindness and compassion, we would also seek to be nourished by the lessons from the Western world.
We are looking forward to establishing a digital museum dedicated to Buddhist civilization of the historic city of Kandy.
Measures will be taken to utilize Al and new technologies to study the Thripitakaya. Establishing Mahavihara University is another important objective we have.
Afund wil be established to provide necessary facilities to the forest-dwelling monks. We
have already started work to develop the Pirivena education. We wil also develop infrastructure facilities for the spiritual development of the Buddhist nuns.
Hinduism began spreading across the country during the Anuradhapura - Polonnaruwa periods. Steps will be taken to develop Hindu temples as well.
We will introduce Dakshina Kailasa based on Thiruketheeshwaram in Mannar,
Naguleshwaram in Jaffna, and Munneshwaram in Chillaw. Koneshwarama temple wil be upgraded as the main Hindu temple of this pilgrimage.
The establish an education center to obtain formal education on Hinduism has been planned after having discussions with the Hindu religious leaders.
We will provide facilities to teach Christian and Catholic children in Christian/Catholic settings. The government will provide funds and support for seminaries and other centres that provide Christian and Catholic education. We will develop infrastructure facilities
around important shrines such as the Madu Shrine and improve facilities available for devotees.
We will be taking steps to develop Madrasa education to facilitate Islamic education. Recently there have been unscientific and anti-religious incidents such as the forced
cremation of the dead despite them being Muslims. Necessary measures will be taken to compensate all families who had to undergo this tragedy. Taking further steps, new laws
will be enacted in 2025 to prevent such incidents in the future. We will establish a society that does not interrupt any religious practice or belief, or disregard cultural identities.
We will continue the programme where solar power systems are given to religious places.

Improving Fine Arts
The spiritual and intellectual lives of people in any country are nourished by arts and culture.
Our country has been gifted with dance styles from upcountry to low country to Sabaragamuwa, a rich folk culture and various forms of arts and crafts including paintings,
sculpting etc. Today, Sri Lanka is blessed with artists representing al forms of arts including musicians, dancers, writers, painters, sculptors who have brought international
honours to the
country.
We will launch programmes to artists to developing their skills to meet international standards so that they wil take our cultural identity to the world.
Sri Lanka now has world famous writers and it is our responsibility to facilitate and encourage their writing.
We will establish an International Fine Arts and Cultural Center near Ananda
Coomarswamy Mawatha by combining the Nelum Pokuna Theatre, John De Silva Theatre, the Science Museum, Mahaweli Centre, and the New Town Hal Premises. This center shall
provide the facilities to improve the skills of the local artists, and produce art of international standard. This center wil be named the Ananda Coomaraswamy Arts and Cultural Centre.
A South Asian Cultural Centre and a Museum for Modern and Contemporary Art will be established in the same premises. This task will be commenced in 2025.
The old military hospital located in Galle Face, Colombo has been allocated for a modern art museum and will commence its construction in 2025.
The centre wil provide facilities for the sectors such as traditional and modern dancing,
music, painting, crafts, cooking, decorations and designs, fashion and wil take measures to generate employment opportunities. This wil be a key site of tourist attraction.
Today, book publication has faced competition with the e-book technology. We wil be taking measures to strengthen the economic power of both the writers and publishers by
widening the facilities for printing books.
Further, we wil create the support required to uplift stage drama, ballet, and opera in Sri Lanka.
We wil reawaken the SAARC Cultural Centre, and lay a strong foundation for art and cultural activities of the region.

We wil commence a pop music and dancing academy for the youth who love the popular culture.
We will setup a fully equipped theatre in every district and organize annual events with the cultural centres, that are currently functioning.
Al the government-owned theaters in Colombo including the Tower Hal and Elphinstone Theatre wil be established under one umbrella institute and developed to utilise them in a
better manner.
The National Film Corporation wil be established as Film Development Commission to keep up
with the current
international trends and
will be renamed "Film Sri Lanka". It
will be a gateway to raise our cinema industry up to international level on digital platforms. The relevant Bil that
gives the authority to implement a number of tasks focusing on the development of cinema is now at its final stage of drafting. After the approval, the government will not intervene with any of the businesses in the field of cinema since it will established as an independent entity. Only regulation would be done by the government. This Bill will be presented to the Parliament in
2025.
The draft Bil for establishing the Public Performance Classification Board cancelling the present Censor Board is now completed. No accusation shall thus be made against a work of art under
criminal law fi the work holds a classification certificate. The draft bill will be passed in the Parliament in 2025.
A Better Environment for Media
Both multi-community media and modern media are needed to create a sensitive society.
We wil be drafting a national journalism policy and building a strong foundation to create a society that values humanity, discipline, loyalty and integrity.
We wil empower and strengthen journalists and freelance writers. Ahigher education institute on journalism wil be established in 2025. We wil work towards solving the issues faced by the regional journalists.
An Electronic Media Regulatory Commission wil be established to generate a transparent media environment which holds values.

One Nation
Sri Lanka is home to people from different ethnicities, al of whom are citizens of the country and thus have the right to live decent lives. We wil ensure happy and free living
for all in a unified Sri Lanka.
Two years ago, the economic crisis shattered the people's hopes in al aspects. People lost the hope of moving forward
But now, the time has come for everyone to be united and come together to create a
beautiful future for the country. The future which we wil be creating wil benefits al citizens equally, irrespective of ethnicity.
No citizen who speaks in Tamil should be neglected by the Sinhala community, and
similarly, no citizen who speaks in Sinhala should be neglected by the Tamil and Muslim communities. We wil make sure that an atmosphere where people from different
ethnicities and religions could live harmoniously like relatives and friends, wil be created.
We will give prominence to reconciliation and creating prosperous lives for all citizens.
Viable solutions wil be provided for the social, economic, political, cultural and educational issues of the Northern and Eastern provinces.
The lands people have lost during the time of war is a complex issue. A National Land Commission will be established to provide viable solutions for these land issues.
Tamil and Muslim communities in the Northern and Eastern provinces who have started
lives anew after the war are facing a number of issues. The following action wil be taken to address their issues;
Enacting the Truth and Reconciliation Act
• Implementing the Nawaz Commission Report on missing persons
Provide financial assistance to the rehabilitated LTTE members to engage in self-employment

A Great Power
A single government will not be able to accomplish all these work over the next five years on its own. Therefore, both the central government and the local government system need
to collaboratively share the responsibility.
Based on the proposals we have made about implementing the 13th Amendment to the Constitution;
We will devolve power to the Provincial Councils as per the Constitution. The
powers of the Provincial Councils that come under Schedule 1, which are now vested under the Central Government will be devolved back to the Provincial
Councils.
2.
The decision of vesting police powers to Provincial Councils wil be decided by the new Parliament.
3.
The powers given under Schedule 3 that are approved by the party leaders wil be given to the Provincial Councils.
Provincial Councils will be given the power over the following areas;
• School education
• Vocational training
• Degree awarding institutions
(with the ability to upgrade to university level later, fi necessary)
• Provincial tourism promotion
• Agriculture modernization
Required laws will be passed regarding the above.
We will be taking measures to establish District Development Committees. Every community irrespective of the fact they are Sinhalese, Tamil, Muslim, Burgher, Malay,
Indigenous or other, will have the right to act independently with a sense of justice as members of one nation despite different views. New laws will be formulated to devolve
powers from the Central Government to Provincial Councils and Local Government Authorities.
It is expected to change the local government system in the year 2025. We will restructure the present Urban Councils and upgrade them to Municipal Councils. A system where
power is executed through Pradeshiya Sabhas and Municipal Councils shall be introduced.
A Win for the Motherland
Several key reforms need to be made in order to rebuild the country to make the future stronger.
I will give the Parliament the responsibility of drafting a new Constitution within a year after the forthcoming Parliamentary Election following the Presidential Election.
The new Parliament will need to decide whether or not to abolish the Executive Presidency.
A New Election System
The new Parliament will introduce a new election procedure based on the
recommendations presented by the Commission headed by the retired Chief Justice Priyasath Dep in making the election reforms.
The political parties in Europe are following systems of high standards in maintaining transparency. We will introduce new rules and regulations regarding election expenditure
and other activities of political parties.
Parliamentary Standards Act
Parliamentary Standards Act will come into force and it will contain sections enabling the removal of Parliamentary Members who strongly violate the standards given ni the Act.
It will enact the laws that prevent the elected representatives from doing business with the government.
Second State Council
The Second State Council consists of representatives from the Provincial Council and the Civil Society as per the Constitutional Council Report.
This Council is responsible for supervising the execution of powers given to the Provincial Councils by the Constitution and other laws.

Empowering the Citizen
Powerful citizens are assets to a country. But, currently, we have very few rules and regulations that empower citizens. Action will be taken to introduce new laws and
agencies that are targeting empowering citizens.
Social Justice Commission
We will establish the Social Justice Commission to prevent discrimination and marginalization of citizens, with the main aim of making people's voices heard.
Peoples' Initiative Act
One of the main methods where people's sovereignty is exercised, is through voting,
which takes place at the Presidential, Parliamentary and Provincial Council election levels.
Peoples' Initiative Act will further enable citizens to submit proposals to the Parliament. In this manner, citizens could be directly involved in the law and policy-making process
of the country. This Act will further strengthen democracy practised in the country.
Jana Sabha
The aim of Jana Sabha is to have the active participation of provincial and rural
communities in the decision-making process. Currently, several pilot projects are being implemented in this regard. We will establish Jana Sabhas with representatives from the
50,000 villages in the country dispersed throughout 14,002 Grama Niladhari Divisions


Let Us Build a New Country!
This plan of action is to make Sri Lanka victorious, not to uphold a party or a single person.
For, Ranil represents neither a party, nor a person, but the whole nation.
ASri Lanka, without racial, religious, linguistic or any other differences. This is our future.
Come, join him in this mission of making the motherland win.
Together, we can build our nation... our future. Yes, we can!

Ranil will win this election. There i s absolutely n o doubt.
Twoyearsago,wewitnessedsadnesseverywhere.Wesawpeoplelanguishinginqueuesfor essentialneeds.Homesw e r ei ndarkness.Therew a sn oelectricity.Peoplecouldn'teven
engageintheirjobs.Everyonehadeconomicdifficulties.
Buttoday,weseeacountrythatsmiles.Acountryilluminatedwithlightandhope.Acountry wherepeoplecanearnalivingandlivefreely.
Who brought this change? Ranil. Yes, Ranil.
Ranilisaleaderwhoknowshowtofacechallenges.Hefinisheswhathestarts.Hedoesnotgive upmid-way.Hehasalwaysbeenlikethat.Hetalksless,andheactswithprecision.
Itwastwenty-threeyearsagowhenheenvisionedgivingfreeholddeedstopeopleanddidthe
groundwork. He strove t o make i t a reality all these years. The Presidents before him never permittedtheproposal,butRanilnevergaveup.Today,peoplenotonlyhavetherightsof
ownershipt othelandsbutalsothehouses.
Therefore, it is crystal clear that i t is only Ranil who can elevate our country t o a higher standard. Itisonlyhimwhocanmakeourlivesbetter.Ranil,andRanilalone.
When other candidates fight over t h e Presidency, Ranil is far removed from the battle. For, he
hasn ofightagainstindividuals.Hisfighti sagainstpoverty,unemploymenta n d malnourishment.
Heisnotfightingforaposition.Heisinthemidstofastruggletomakethelivesoftheyouth better.
Ranil is fighting to bring victory t o our motherland. His battle is t o make Sri Lanka a developed nation,thatisa pleasuretolivein.
That is why Ranil will win this election. That is why Ranil will remain unbeatable. Hebelieveswecan.
Yes,wecan!


